# WIKIPEDIA ARTICLE: Atlético_Madrid

## TABLE OF CONTENTS

1 History
1.1 Foundation and first years (1903–1939)
1.2 Athletic Aviación de Madrid (1939–1947)
1.3 Golden age (1947–1965)
1.4 European Cup finalists (1965–1974)
1.5 The Aragonés years (1974–1987)
1.6 The Transition years (1987–2005)
1.7 Torres sale and eventual European success (2006–2011)
1.8 Simeone revolution and revival of Atlético success (2011–present)
2 Recent seasons
3 Rivalries
3.1 Real Madrid
3.2 Barcelona
4 Honours
4.1 Awards & recognitions
5 International competition record
5.1 UEFA club coefficient ranking
6 Players
6.1 Current squad
6.2 Reserve team
6.3 Out on loan
7 Staff
7.1 Technical staff
8 Ownership and overseas properties
9 Colours and badge
10 Nicknames
11 Stadium and facility
11.1 Training ground
12 Kit suppliers and shirt sponsors
13 Supporters
14 Notable players
15 See also
16 Notes
17 References
18 External links

# FULL CONTENT

## History

History [ edit ] Foundation and first years (1903–1939) [ edit ] Enrique Allende , first President of the club after its establishment in 1903 An Athletic Madrid lineup of 1910 in their new red and white kit The club was founded on 26 April 1903 as Athletic Club Sucursal de Madrid by three Basque students living in Madrid . These founders saw the new club as a youth branch of their childhood team, Athletic Bilbao who they had just seen win the 1903 Copa del Rey Final in the city. In 1904, they were joined by dissident members of Real Madrid . They began playing in blue and white halved shirts, the then colours of Athletic Bilbao, but by 1910, both the Bilbao and Madrid teams were playing in their current colours of red and white stripes. Some believe the change came about because red and white striped tops were the cheapest to make, as the same combination was used to make ticking for mattresses , and the unused cloth was easily converted into football shirts. This contributed to the club's nickname, Los Colchoneros . However, another explanation is that both Athletic Bilbao and Athletic Madrid used to buy Blackburn Rovers ' blue and white kits in England. In late 1909, Juan Elorduy , a former player and member of the board of Athletic Madrid, went to England to buy kits for both teams but failed to find Blackburn kits to purchase; he instead bought the red and white shirts of Southampton (the club from the port city which was his embarkation point back to Spain). (Official position of both Southampton FC and Athletic Club). Athletic Madrid adopted the red and white shirt, leading to them being known as Los Rojiblancos , but opted to keep their existing blue shorts whereas the Bilbao team switched to new black shorts. Athletic Bilbao won the 1911 Copa del Rey Final using several 'borrowed' players from Athletic Madrid, including Manolón [ es ] who scored one of their goals. Athletic's first ground, the Ronda de Vallecas , was in the eponymous working-class area on the south side of the city. In 1919, the Compañía Urbanizadora Metropolitana—the company that ran the underground communication system in Madrid—acquired some land, near the Ciudad Universitaria . In 1921, Athletic Madrid became independent of parent-club Athletic Bilbao and moved into a 35,800-seater stadium built by the company, the Estadio Metropolitano de Madrid . During the 1920s, Athletic won the Campeonato del Centro three times and were Copa del Rey runners-up in 1921, where they faced parent club Athletic Bilbao, as they would again in 1926. Based on these successes, in 1928 they were invited to join the Primera División of the inaugural La Liga played the following year. During their debut La Liga campaign, the club was managed by Fred Pentland , but after two seasons they were relegated to Segunda División . They briefly returned to La Liga in 1934 but were relegated again in 1936 after Josep Samitier took over in mid-season from Pentland. The Spanish Civil War gave Los Colchoneros a reprieve, as Real Oviedo was unable to play due to the destruction of their stadium during the bombings. Thus, both La Liga and Athletic's relegation were postponed, the latter by winning a playoff against Osasuna , champion of the Segunda División tournament. Athletic Aviación de Madrid (1939–1947) [ edit ] By 1939, when La Liga had resumed, Athletic had merged with Aviación Nacional of Zaragoza to become Athletic Aviación de Madrid . Aviación Nacional had been founded in 1937 by three aviation officers of the Spanish Air Force . They had been promised a place in the Primera División for the 1939–40 season, only to be denied by the RFEF , and since they did not want to go through the whole divisional climb up, this club merged with Athletic, whose squad had lost eight players during the Civil War, including the team's star, Monchín Triana , who was shot dead. At that time, Real Oviedo also had its field destroyed by the war, so it was decided to give up its place to another team, and that finals spot was contested by Aviación and Osasuna , in a match in Valencia on 26 November 1939, which Aviación won 3–1. With the legendary Ricardo Zamora as manager, the club subsequently won their first La Liga title that season and retained the titles in 1941 . The most influential and charismatic player of these years was the captain Germán Gómez , who was signed from Racing Santander in 1939. He played eight consecutive seasons for the Rojiblancos until the 1947–48 campaign . From his central midfield position, he formed a legendary midfield alongside Machín and Ramón Gabilondo . In mid-1940, a decree issued by Francisco Franco banned teams from using foreign names and the club became Atlético Aviación de Madrid . In September 1940, Atlético Aviación won the first Super cup in Spanish football after beating RCD Español, the 1940 Copa del Generalísimo winners, in a two-legged game that ended in a 10–4 aggregate victory, including a 7–1 trashing in the second leg at Campo de Fútbol de Vallecas . On 14 December 1946, the club decided to drop the military association from its name, and shortly after, on 6 January, it settled on its current name of Club Atlético de Madrid . Also in 1947, Atlético beat Real Madrid 5–0 at the Metropolitano , their biggest win over their cross-town rivals to date. Golden age (1947–1965) [ edit ] Helenio Herrera won two league titles as Atlético manager. Under Helenio Herrera and with the help of Larbi Benbarek , Atlético won La Liga again in 1950 and 1951 . With the departure of Herrera in 1953, the club began to slip behind Real Madrid and Barcelona and for the remainder of the 1950s were left to battle it out with Athletic Bilbao for the title of third team in Spain. However, during the 1960s and 1970s, Atlético Madrid seriously challenged Barcelona for the position of second team. The 1957–58 season saw Ferdinand Daučík take charge of Atlético, where he led them to second place in La Liga. This resulted in Atlético qualifying for the 1958–59 European Cup since the winners, Real Madrid, were the reigning European champions. Inspired by Brazilian centre-forward Vavá and Enrique Collar , Atlético reached the semi-finals after beating Drumcondra , CSKA Sofia and Schalke 04 . In the semi-finals, they met Real Madrid, who won the first leg 2–1 at the Santiago Bernabéu while Atlético won 1–0 at the Metropolitano . The tie went to a replay and Real won 2–1 in Zaragoza. Atlético, however, gained their revenge when, led by former Real coach José Villalonga , they defeated Real in two successive Copa del Rey finals in 1960 and 1961 . In 1962, they won the European Cup Winners' Cup , beating Fiorentina 3–0 after a replay. This achievement was significant for the club, as the Cup Winners' Cup was the only major European trophy that Real Madrid never won. The following year, the club reached the 1963 finals, but lost to English side Tottenham Hotspur 5–1. Enrique Collar, who continued to be an influential player during this era, was now joined by the likes of midfielder Miguel Jones and midfield playmaker Adelardo . Atlético's best years coincided with dominant Real Madrid teams. Between 1961 and 1980, Real Madrid dominated La Liga, winning the competition 14 times. During this era, only Atlético offered Real any serious challenge, winning La Liga titles in 1966 , 1970 , 1973 and 1977 and finishing runners-up in 1961 , 1963 and 1965 . The club had further success winning the Copa del Rey on three occasions in 1965 , 1972 and 1976 . In 1965, when they finished as La Liga runners-up to Real after an intense battle for the titles, Atlético became the first team to beat Real at the Bernabéu in eight years. European Cup finalists (1965–1974) [ edit ] Chart of Atleti's finishing positions in the Spanish football league system José Eulogio Gárate and Javier Irureta proved important attacking pieces of the squad that took Atlético to the 1974 European Cup final In 1966, Atlético left the Estadio Metropolitano de Madrid (which was demolished and was replaced with university buildings and an office block belonging to the company ENUSA) and moved to a new home in the Manzanares river waterfront, the Vicente Calderón Stadium , which was inaugurated on 2 October 1966 with a fixture against Valencia. Significant players from this era included the now-veteran Adelardo and regular goalscorers Luis Aragonés , Javier Irureta and José Eulogio Gárate , the latter winning the Pichichi three times in 1969, 1970 and 1971. In the 1970s, Atlético also recruited several Argentine players, signing Rubén Ayala , Panadero Díaz and Ramón "Cacho" Heredia as well as coach Juan Carlos Lorenzo . Lorenzo believed in discipline, caution and disrupting the opponents' game, and although controversial, his methods proved successful—after winning La Liga in 1973 , the club reached the 1974 European Cup Final . On the way to the Final, Atlético knocked out Galatasaray , Dinamo București , Red Star Belgrade and Celtic . In the away leg of the semi-finals against Celtic, Atlético had Ayala, Díaz and substitute Quique all sent off during a hard-fought encounter in what was reported as one of the worst cases of cynical fouling the tournament has seen. Because of this approach, they managed a 0–0 draw, followed by a 2–0 victory in the return leg with goals from Gárate and Adelardo. The finals at Heysel Stadium , however, was a loss for Atlético. Against a Bayern Munich team that included Franz Beckenbauer , Sepp Maier , Paul Breitner , Uli Hoeneß and Gerd Müller , Atlético played above themselves. Despite missing Ayala, Díaz and Quique through suspension, they went ahead in extra-time with only seven minutes left. Aragonés scored with a superb, curling free-kick that looked like the winner, but in the last minute of the game, Bayern defender Georg Schwarzenbeck equalized with a stunning 25-yarder that left Atlético goalkeeper Miguel Reina motionless. In a replay back at Heysel two days later, Bayern won convincingly 4–0, with two goals each from Hoeneß and Müller. The Aragonés years (1974–1987) [ edit ] Luis Aragonés , Atlético's most successful manager Shortly after the defeat in the 1974 European Cup Final , Atlético appointed their veteran player Luis Aragonés as coach. Aragonés subsequently was coach on four separate occasions, from 1974 to 1980, from 1982 to 1987, once again from 1991 until 1993 and finally from 2002 to 2003. His first success came quickly as Bayern Munich had refused to participate in the Intercontinental Cup because of fixture congestion, and as European Cup runners-up, Atlético were invited instead. Their opponents were Independiente of Argentina and, after losing the away leg 1–0, they won the return leg 2–0 with goals from Javier Irureta and Rubén Ayala . Aragonés subsequently led the club to further successes in the Copa del Rey in 1976 and La Liga in 1977 . During his second spell in charge, Aragonés led the club to a runners-up finish in La Liga and a winner's medal in the Copa del Rey , both in 1985. He received considerable help from Hugo Sánchez , who scored 19 league goals and won the Pichichi . Sánchez also scored twice in the cup finals as Atlético beat Athletic Bilbao 2–1. Sánchez, however, only remained at the club for one season before his move across the city to Real Madrid. Despite the loss of Sánchez, Aragonés went on to lead the club to success in the Supercopa de España in 1985 and then guided them to the European Cup Winners' Cup final in 1986 . Atlético, however, lost their third successive European finals, this time 3–0 to Dynamo Kyiv . The Transition years (1987–2005) [ edit ] Donato played in Atlético between 1988 and 1993. Radomir Antić managed Atlético in three stints during the ownership of Jesús Gil , winning a league and cup double in 1996. In 1987, controversial politician and businessman Jesús Gil became club president, running the club (and committing a fraud of misappropriation by seizing 95% of the shares while failing to effectively pay a single Peseta during the Atlético's forced conversion from fan-owned club to Sociedad Anónima Deportiva in 1992) until his resignation in May 2003. Atlético had not won La Liga for ten years and were desperate for league success. Right away, Gil spent heavily, bringing in a number of expensive signings, most notably Portuguese winger Paulo Futre , who had just won the European Cup with Porto . All the spending, however, only brought in two consecutive Copa del Rey trophies in 1991 and 1992 as the league titles proved elusive. The closest Atlético came to the La Liga trophy was the 1990–91 season when they finished runners-up by 10 points to Johan Cruyff 's Barcelona . In the process, Gil developed a ruthless reputation due to the manner in which he ran the club. In pursuit of league success, he hired and fired a number of high-profile head coaches, including César Luis Menotti , Ron Atkinson , Javier Clemente , Tomislav Ivić , Francisco Maturana and Alfio Basile , as well as club legend Luis Aragonés. Gil also closed down Atlético's youth academy in 1992, a move that would prove significant due to 15-year-old academy member Raúl who, as a result, went across town to later achieve worldwide fame with rivals Real Madrid. The move came as part of the overall Gil-initiated business restructuring of the club; Atlético became a Sociedad Anónima Deportiva, a corporate structure benefiting from a then-recently introduced special legal status under Spanish corporate law, allowing individuals to purchase and trade club shares. In the 1994–95 league campaign, Atlético only avoided relegation via a draw on the last day of the season. This prompted another managerial change along with a wholesale squad clearance during the summer 1995 transfer window. Somewhat unexpectedly, in the following 1995–96 season, newly arrived head coach Radomir Antić , with a squad including holdovers Toni , Roberto Solozábal , Delfí Geli , Juan Vizcaíno , José Luis Caminero , Diego Simeone and Kiko , as well as new acquisitions Milinko Pantić , Lyuboslav Penev , Santi Denia and José Francisco Molina finally delivered the much sought-after league titles as Atlético won the La Liga / Copa del Rey double. The next season, 1996–97, saw the club take part in the UEFA Champions League for the first time. With expectations and ambitions raised, the most notable summer transfer signings were striker Juan Esnáider from Real Madrid and Radek Bejbl , who was coming off a great showing for Czech Republic at Euro 1996 . Playing on two fronts, Atlético fell out of the league title contention early while, in the Champions League, they were eliminated by Ajax in extra-time in the quarter-finals. Before the 1997–98 season, the heavy spending continued with the signings of Christian Vieri and Juninho . All of the success, however, produced little change in the overall Gil strategy, and although Antić survived three consecutive seasons in charge, he was replaced during the summer of 1998 with Arrigo Sacchi , who himself only remained in the managerial hot seat for less than six months. Antić then returned briefly in early 1999 only to be replaced with Claudio Ranieri at the end of the season. Fernando Torres , who began his career at Atlético, achieved notable success with the Spain national team The 1999–2000 season proved disastrous for Atlético. In December 1999, Gil and his board were suspended pending an investigation into the misuse of club funds, with government-appointed administrator José Manuel Rubí running Atlético's day-to-day operations. With the removal of club President Jesús Gil and his board, the players performed poorly and the club floundered. Ranieri handed in his resignation with the club sitting 17th out of 20 in the league table and heading towards relegation. Antić, returning for his third coaching stint, was unable to prevent the inevitable. Despite reaching the Copa del Rey final in 2000, Atlético were relegated for the second time in 66 years. The club spent two seasons in the Segunda División, narrowly missing out on promotion in 2000–01 season before winning the Segunda División championship in 2002. It was again Aragonés, in his fourth and last spell as manager of Atlético, who brought them back to the Primera División. Aragonés also coached the team during the next season, and gave Fernando Torres his La Liga debut. Torres came through the academy of the club and was a hot prospect in Spain; in his first season in the league, 2002–03 , he scored 13 goals in 29 appearances. In July 2003, soon after his takeover of the club, Chelsea owner Roman Abramovich offered £28 million for Torres, which was rejected by Atlético. In the 2003–04 season , Torres continued his success as he scored 19 league goals in 35 appearances, making him the joint third-highest scorer in the league. Torres had been at Atlético since the age of 11 and his precocious talent led to him becoming the club's youngest ever captain at the age of just 19. Torres sale and eventual European success (2006–2011) [ edit ] Atlético fans during a Madrid derby in February 2007 played at the Vicente Calderón Stadium . In 2006, Atlético signed Portuguese midfielders Costinha and Maniche , as well as Argentine forward Sergio Agüero . In July 2007, Torres left the club for Liverpool for €38 million, while Luis García signed for the club at the same time in an unrelated transfer. The club also bought Uruguay international and former European Golden Boot and Pichichi winners Diego Forlán for roughly €21 million from Villarreal . Other additions included Portuguese winger Simão Sabrosa from Benfica for €20 million and winger José Antonio Reyes from Arsenal for €12 million. In July 2007, the Atlético board reached an agreement with the City of Madrid to sell the land where their stadium was located and move the club to the City-owned Olympic Stadium . The stadium changed hands in 2016 and was bought by the club for €30.4 million. Madrid had applied to host the 2016 Olympic Games , losing out to Rio de Janeiro . The 2007–08 season proved to be the most successful season for the club in the past decade. The team reached the round of 32 in the UEFA Cup , where they were defeated by Bolton Wanderers . They also reached the quarter-finals round of the Copa del Rey , where they were beaten by eventual champions Valencia . More significantly, the team finished the league season in fourth place, qualifying for the UEFA Champions League for the first time since the 1996–97 season . On 3 February 2009, Javier Aguirre was dismissed from his post as manager after a poor start to the season, going without a win in six games. He later claimed that this was not accurate, and that he had left by mutual termination rather than through sacking. There was public outrage after his dismissal, many believing he was not the cause of Atlético's problems, namely player Diego Forlán. He backed his former manager and said that, "Dismissing Javier was the easy way out, but he was not the cause of our problems. The players are to blame because we have not been playing well and we have been committing a lot of errors." This led to the appointment of Abel Resino as Atlético's new manager. Atlético's success continued in the latter half of the season when they placed fourth once again in the league table, securing a position in the playoff round of the UEFA Champions League. Striker Diego Forlán was crowned with the Pichichi and also won the European Golden Shoe after scoring 32 goals for Atlético that season. Atlético saw this domestic success as an opportunity to reinforce their squad for the upcoming Champions League season. They replaced veteran goalkeeper Leo Franco with David de Gea from the youth ranks and signed promising youngster Sergio Asenjo from Real Valladolid . Atlético also acquired Real Betis defender and Spanish international Juanito on a free transfer. Despite pressure from big clubs to sell star players Agüero and Forlán, Atlético remained committed to keeping their strong attacking base in the hopes for a successful new season. Atlético's striker partnership during this era: Sergio Agüero (left) and Diego Forlán (right). Forlán won the European Golden Shoe in 2009. The 2009–10 season , however, began poorly with many defeats and goals conceded. On 21 October, Atletico were hammered 4–0 by English club Chelsea in the Champions League group stage. This defeat led Atletico's management to announce that manager Abel Resino had to leave. After failing to sign Danish former footballer Michael Laudrup , Atlético Madrid announced that the new manager for the rest of the season would be Quique Sánchez Flores . With the arrival of Sánchez Flores as coach in October 2009, Atlético improved in many of their competition. Atlético continued to lag somewhat in La Liga during the 2009–10 season, finishing in ninth position, but managed to finish third in their 2009–10 UEFA Champions League group stage and subsequently entered the Europa League in the round of 32. Atlético went on to win the Europa League, beating English teams Liverpool in the semi-finals and eventually Fulham in the finals held at HSH Nordbank Arena in Hamburg on 12 May 2010. Diego Forlán scored twice, the second being an extra-time winner in the 116th minute, as Atlético won 2–1. It was the first time since the 1961–62 European Cup Winners' Cup that Atlético had claimed a European titles. They also reached the Copa del Rey finals on 19 May 2010, where they faced Sevilla , but lost 2–0 at the Camp Nou in Barcelona . By winning the Europa League, they qualified for the 2010 UEFA Super Cup against Inter Milan , winner of the 2009–10 UEFA Champions League. The match was played at the Stade Louis II , Monaco on 27 August 2010. Atlético won 2–0 with goals from José Antonio Reyes and Agüero, making it the club's first win in the UEFA Super Cup . Atlético had a comparatively disappointing 2010–11 season, finishing only seventh in the League and being eliminated in the quarter-finals of the Copa del Rey and the group stage of the Europa League . This ultimately led to the departure of manager Sánchez Flores before the conclusion of the season, who was replaced with ex-Sevilla manager Gregorio Manzano . Simeone revolution and revival of Atlético success (2011–present) [ edit ] Diego Simeone has led the club to two UEFA Champions League finals On 23 December 2011, Atlético appointed their former Argentine player, Diego Simeone , as manager in place of Manzano. The club were in a period of uncertainty, having appointed five managers in less than three years and allowing young talents, namely Agüero and de Gea, to leave for the Premier League . The team was sitting 10th in La Liga at the time of Simeone's appointment, after losing four of their last five games. The appointment of Simeone was seen as a risk, who was relatively inexperienced and previously only had European managerial experience with Italian underdogs Catania . However, he swiftly transformed Atlético into a formidable force. As a player, Simeone was known as a fierce, all-action midfielder; he brought the same relentless, win-at-all-costs mentality to Atlético as manager. His focus was on building a strong defence, anchored by teenage Chelsea loanee goalkeeper Thibaut Courtois and Uruguayan centre-back Diego Godín . The results were immediate, as Simeone's first six games in charge featured six clean sheets. According to Spanish football writer Andy West, Atlético fans came to quickly to embrace Simeone, especially in light of his role as a pivotal player in their 1995-96 league and cup double. Simeone led Atlético to their second Europa League win in the three years since its creation; Atlético beat Athletic Bilbao 3–0 in the final on 9 May 2012 at National Arena in Bucharest with two goals from Radamel Falcao and one from Diego . By winning the Europa League again, Atlético qualified for the 2012 UEFA Super Cup against Chelsea, winners of the previous season's Champions League . The game was played at the Stade Louis II, Monaco on 31 August 2012; Atlético won 4–1, including a hat-trick by Falcao in the first half. On 17 May 2013, Atlético beat Real Madrid 2–1 in the Copa del Rey final in a tense match where both teams finished with ten men. This ended a 14-year and 25-match winless streak in the Madrid derby . The 2012–13 season saw the club finish with three trophies in a little over a year. On 17 May 2014, a 1–1 draw at the Camp Nou against Barcelona secured the La Liga title for Atlético, their first since 1996, and the first titles since 2003–04 not won by Barcelona or Real Madrid. One week later, Atlético faced city rivals Real Madrid in their first Champions League final since 1974, and the first played between two sides from the same city. They took a first-half lead through Godín and led until the third minute of injury time, when Sergio Ramos headed in an equaliser from a corner; the match went to extra time, and Real ultimately won 4–1. Antoine Griezmann , Atlético's all-time top scorer, with the UEFA Europa League title in 2018 Antoine Griezmann , who had a standout season in La Liga and featured at the 2014 FIFA World Cup , joined Atlético from Real Sociedad on 28 July 2014. During his first stint with the club, Griezmann was Atlético's top scorer for five consecutive seasons. He established himself as a world-class player at Atlético, also shining on the international stage as he finished as the top scorer at UEFA Euro 2016 and earned the tournament's best player award. That same year , he placed third in the Ballon d'Or rankings, behind Lionel Messi and Cristiano Ronaldo . Atlético reached a second Champions League final in three seasons in 2015–16 , again facing Real Madrid, and lost on penalties after a 1–1 draw. The club played their last home game at the Vicente Calderón Stadium on 21 May 2017, thereby moving to a new home, the refurbished Wanda Metropolitano in eastern Madrid. In 2018, they won their third Europa League title in nine years by beating Marseille 3–0 in the finals at the Stade de Lyon in Lyon , courtesy of a brace from Griezmann and a goal from club captain Gabi in what would be his last match for the club. Atlético also won another UEFA Super Cup after beating Real Madrid 4–2 at the outset of the following season at the Lilleküla Arena in Tallinn . Simeone celebrating the La Liga title win in 2021 On 25 September 2020, Atlético signed Luis Suárez from Barcelona. One of the world's best strikers, Suárez made a dramatic impact at the club, as he played a pivotal role in their unexpected La Liga title triumph, seven years after the 2013–14 win. He scored 17 goals in his first 19 La Liga matches, helping Atlético establish a 10-point lead by January. Although the team wavered later in the season, Suárez's relentless competitive drive proved decisive, as he netted crucial goals in the final two games to secure the title. The final game of the title-winning season was on 22 May 2021, a 2–1 win at the José Zorrilla Stadium against Valladolid . On April 16, 2024, the team qualified to the 2025 FIFA Club World Cup for first time in club's history, despite being eliminated in the 2023–24 Champions League , as Barcelona were also eliminated, and Atlético were the higher ranked Spanish club in the UEFA four-year ranking. ^ a b c "Classic club" . FIFA . Archived from the original on 6 September 2011 . Retrieved 20 November 2010 . ^ "Atletico Madrid History" . Atleticomadrid.azplayers. Archived from the original on 7 July 2011 . Retrieved 20 November 2010 . ^ "Blackburn Rovers" . Historical Football Kits . Archived from the original on 18 May 2019 . Retrieved 10 October 2018 . ^ "The Atlético Crest and its Meaning – The Offside – Atlético Madrid Spanish La Liga Football Blog" . Atletico.theoffside. Archived from the original on 3 November 2010 . Retrieved 20 November 2010 . ^ "Southampton" . Historical Football Kits . Archived from the original on 11 October 2018 . Retrieved 10 October 2018 . ^ "Athletic-Atlético, historia de dos parientes" [Athletic-Atlético, history of two relatives]. ABC (in Spanish). 8 May 2012. Archived from the original on 31 March 2019 . Retrieved 10 October 2018 . ^ Agiriano, Jon (6 January 2010). "Los Colores del Siglo" [The colours of the century]. El Correo (in Spanish). Archived from the original on 4 December 2021 . Retrieved 15 October 2018 . ^ "Athletic de Madrid 1910-11" . Equipos de Fútbol (Football Teams) (in Spanish). 13 July 2016. Archived from the original on 11 October 2018 . Retrieved 10 October 2018 . ^ "Manuel Garnica, the "Saint" who scored a goal with Athletic" [Manuel Garnica, el "Santo" que metió un gol con el Athletic]. Memorias del Fútbol Vasco (Memories of Basque Football) (in Spanish). 30 March 2014. Archived from the original on 4 December 2021 . Retrieved 10 October 2018 . ^ "Talking History: Atlético Madrid – This Is Anfield (Liverpool FC)" . Thisisanfield. 26 April 2010. Archived from the original on 5 August 2010 . Retrieved 20 November 2010 . ^ a b "La historia desconocida del Atlético Aviación: el club que nunca fue el origen del Atlético de Madrid" [The unknown history of Atlético Aviación: the club that was never the origin of Atlético de Madrid]. www.larazon.es (in Spanish). 20 September 2021. Archived from the original on 7 October 2022 . Retrieved 7 October 2022 . ^ "La Liga History – Football League" . Ole Ole . 6 April 2009. Archived from the original on 6 March 2012 . Retrieved 20 November 2010 . ^ "A decree Spanishizes the names (1940)" [Un decreto españoliza los nombres (1940)]. as.com . 20 December 2016. Archived from the original on 9 October 2022 . Retrieved 9 October 2022 . ^ "Copa de Campeones" . RSSSF . 20 January 2022. Archived from the original on 21 May 2016 . Retrieved 9 October 2022 . ^ Real Madrid Vs. Atletico Madrid Archived 14 November 2018 at the Wayback Machine . Realatletico.com. Retrieved 20 November 2010. ^ European Cup & Champions League History 1955–2010 Archived 30 September 2017 at the Wayback Machine . Europeancuphistory.com. Retrieved 20 November 2010. ^ European Competitions 1958–59 Archived 12 January 2016 at the Wayback Machine . rsssf.org. Retrieved 20 November 2010. ^ "1958/59: Di Stéfano keeps Madrid rolling on" . Uefa.com . UEFA Champions League . 3 June 1959. Archived from the original on 1 May 2013 . Retrieved 20 November 2010 . ^ "UEFA Cup Winners' Cup" . Uefa.com . 1 June 1962. Archived from the original on 4 September 2015 . Retrieved 20 November 2010 . ^ "UEFA Cup Winners' Cup" . Uefa.com . 1 June 1963. Archived from the original on 12 January 2016 . Retrieved 20 November 2010 . ^ Adelardo, Adelardo Rodríguez Sánchez Archived 1 April 2018 at the Wayback Machine . BDFutbol (26 September 1939). Retrieved 20 November 2010. ^ Santos, Eric (3 October 2016). "Así fue el primer partido del Calderón" . Cadena SER . Archived from the original on 1 June 2022 . Retrieved 1 June 2022 . ^ "1973/74: Müller ends Bayern wait –" . UEFA . 15 May 1974. Archived from the original on 24 July 2017 . Retrieved 8 March 2013 . ^ European Competitions 1973–74 Archived 6 October 2009 at the Wayback Machine . rsssf.org. Retrieved 20 November 2010. ^ European Cup & Champions League History 1955–2010 Archived 26 February 2014 at the Wayback Machine . Europeancuphistory.com. Retrieved 20 November 2010. ^ a b "1973/74: Müller ends Bayern wait on" . Uefa.com . UEFA Champions League . 15 May 1974. Archived from the original on 11 October 2010 . Retrieved 20 November 2010 . ^ a b "Intercontinental Cup 1974" . FIFA.com . Archived from the original on 4 December 2009 . Retrieved 20 November 2010 . ^ Intercontinental Club Cup 1974 Archived 27 November 2022 at the Wayback Machine . rsssf.org. Retrieved 20 November 2010. ^ "UEFA Cup Winners' Cup" . Uefa.com . 1 June 1986. Archived from the original on 21 August 2010 . Retrieved 20 November 2010 . ^ European Competitions 1985–86 Archived 14 March 2023 at the Wayback Machine . rsssf.org. Retrieved 20 November 2010. ^ Cruz, Sergio de la (30 June 2018). "Historia de un delito prescrito: así perdió su equipo la afición del Atlético de Madrid" . El Economista . Archived from the original on 23 May 2022 . Retrieved 1 June 2022 . ^ "Atletico owner Gil dies" . BBC News . 14 May 2004. Archived from the original on 16 February 2021 . Retrieved 5 July 2012 . ^ Futre, Paulo Jorge Dos Santos Futre Archived 21 April 2020 at the Wayback Machine . BDFutbol (28 February 1966). Retrieved 20 November 2010. ^ Lowe, Sid (3 November 2009). "Are 'madhouse' Atlético Madrid the worst run club in Europe?" . The Guardian . London. Archived from the original on 5 March 2017 . Retrieved 11 December 2016 . ^ Raúl González Archived 25 April 2012 at the Wayback Machine , spanish-fiestas.com ^ Lowe, Sid (18 April 2010). "Atlético Madrid can put end to glory of suffering in Liverpool semi" . The Guardian . London. Archived from the original on 5 March 2017 . Retrieved 11 December 2016 . ^ Atletico Madrid Season Needs Flores Formula Archived 6 February 2021 at the Wayback Machine . Insidefutbol.com (1 December 2009). Retrieved 20 November 2010. ^ "Fernando Torres Career" . Torres Soccer Profiles . Archived from the original on 9 January 2011 . Retrieved 20 November 2010 . ^ "Primer equipo" (in Spanish). Fernando Torres. Archived from the original on 1 May 2013 . Retrieved 17 November 2008 . ^ a b "Torres" . FootballDatabase . Archived from the original on 15 February 2009 . Retrieved 8 June 2008 . ^ "Chelsea sign Bridge" . The Daily Telegraph . London. 21 July 2003. Archived from the original on 11 January 2022 . Retrieved 30 January 2013 . ^ "Statistics: top scorers: 2003/2004" . ESPN FC . Archived from the original on 21 April 2020 . Retrieved 5 August 2014 . ^ "Liverpool complete Torres signing" . 4 July 2007 . Retrieved 3 October 2024 . ^ Lowe, Sid (4 July 2007). "Will Torres be Kop's new God or just another Fernando?" . The Guardian . London. Archived from the original on 14 February 2022 . Retrieved 5 August 2014 . ^ UEFA.com (10 August 2006). "Costinha aims high with Atlético" . UEFA . Archived from the original on 6 January 2022 . Retrieved 6 January 2022 . ^ a b Torres cuts short holiday, set to join Liverpool Archived 23 October 2012 at the Wayback Machine Soccernet.espn.go.com (3 July 2007). Retrieved 20 November 2010. ^ Austin, Simon (22 October 2008). "New and improved Forlan to test Liverpool" . BBC News . Archived from the original on 6 February 2021 . Retrieved 20 July 2010 . ^ Reyes goes to Atleti Archived 13 January 2009 at the Wayback Machine , Marca 29 July 2007 (in Spanish) ^ "Reyes passes Atletico Madrid medical" . Goal . 30 July 2007. Archived from the original on 30 September 2007. ^ "El Atlético compra el estadio de La Peineta por 30 millones" . AS.com (in Spanish). 13 March 2017. Archived from the original on 7 September 2021 . Retrieved 6 January 2022 . ^ "Atletico Madrid to move to city's Olympic stadium" . The Guardian . 30 July 2007. Archived from the original on 17 November 2007 . Retrieved 6 February 2023 . ^ UEFA.com (14 February 2008). "Bolton joy as Diouf downs Atlético" . UEFA . Archived from the original on 10 January 2022 . Retrieved 10 January 2022 . ^ European Competitions 1996–97 Archived 21 February 2023 at the Wayback Machine . rsssf.org. Retrieved 20 November 2010. ^ Javier Aguirre Walks Away From Atletico Archived 4 October 2011 at the Wayback Machine . TheOriginalWinger.com (3 February 2009). Retrieved 20 November 2010. ^ Spanish Football News (4 February 2009). "Abel Resino: Atletico Madrid job dream come true" . Tribal Football . Archived from the original on 7 February 2009 . Retrieved 20 November 2010 . ^ "Diego Forlán reveals folly of defying Sir Alex Ferguson's footwear advice" . The Guardian . 14 September 2009. Archived from the original on 9 March 2021 . Retrieved 22 April 2021 . ^ "Official: Atletico Madrid Sign Juanito From Real Betis | Goal.com" . www.goal.com . Archived from the original on 6 January 2022 . Retrieved 6 January 2022 . ^ Fletcher, Paul (21 October 2009). "Chelsea 4–0 Atletico Madrid" . BBC Sport . Archived from the original on 1 May 2021 . Retrieved 13 May 2010 . ^ "Atletico Madrid sack coach Resino" . BBC Sport . 23 October 2009. Archived from the original on 26 October 2009 . Retrieved 24 October 2009 . ^ "Quique to Atletico Madrid" . La Liga Weekly . 23 October 2009. Archived from the original on 30 October 2009 . Retrieved 20 November 2010 . ^ "Quique Sánchez Flores to be manager at Atlético de Madrid" . Typically Spanish . 24 October 2009. Archived from the original on 1 March 2012 . Retrieved 20 November 2010 . ^ UEFA.com (29 April 2010). "Forlán puts Atlético on the highway to Hamburg" . UEFA . Archived from the original on 6 January 2022 . Retrieved 6 January 2022 . ^ "Atletico Madrid coach Quique Sanchez Flores hails players' resolve against Fulham" . The Daily Telegraph . London. 13 May 2010. Archived from the original on 22 May 2010. ^ Ornstein, David (29 April 2010). "Liverpool 2 – 1 Atletico Madrid (agg 2 – 2)" . BBC Sport . Archived from the original on 12 May 2010 . Retrieved 13 May 2010 . ^ "Late winner breaks Fulham hearts" . ESPNsoccernet . 12 May 2010. Archived from the original on 18 May 2010 . Retrieved 13 May 2010 . ^ Winter, Henry (12 May 2010). "Fulham 1 Atlético Madrid 2 aet: match report" . The Daily Telegraph . HSH Nordbank Arena , Hamburg. Archived from the original on 15 May 2010 . Retrieved 12 May 2010 . ^ Report: Atlético Madrid v Sevilla FC – Spanish Copa del Rey – ESPN Soccernet Archived 23 October 2012 at the Wayback Machine . Soccernet.espn.go.com (20 May 2010). Retrieved 20 November 2010. ^ UEFA.com (6 June 2011). "2010 Super Cup: Atlético win on Super Cup debut" . UEFA . Archived from the original on 6 January 2022 . Retrieved 6 January 2022 . ^ App (14 May 2011). "Sanchez Flores to leave Atletico Madrid" . fourfourtwo.com . Archived from the original on 4 January 2022 . Retrieved 4 January 2022 . ^ "Official: Atletico Madrid appoint Gregorio Manzano as coach on one-year terms | Goal.com" . www.goal.com . Archived from the original on 4 January 2022 . Retrieved 4 January 2022 . ^ "Diego Simeone appointed Atletico boss" . Sports Mole . 24 December 2011 . Retrieved 2 October 2024 . ^ a b c d e f "Diego Simeone: 'He's totally transformed Atletico Madrid' - but is he suffering an identity crisis?" . BBC Sport . 23 December 2021 . Retrieved 2 October 2024 . ^ "Atletico Madrid sack boss Gregorio Manzano" . ESPN.com . 22 December 2011. Archived from the original on 4 January 2022 . Retrieved 4 January 2022 . ^ App (23 December 2011). "Simeone replaces Manzano at Atletico" . fourfourtwo.com . Archived from the original on 4 January 2022 . Retrieved 4 January 2022 . ^ Wilson, Jonathan (9 May 2012). "Atlético Madrid 3–0 Athletic Bilbao" . The Guardian . London. Archived from the original on 25 April 2018 . Retrieved 11 December 2016 . ^ "Atl. Madrid 3–0 Athletic Bilbao: EL champs" . Goal.com. 9 May 2012. Archived from the original on 17 June 2019 . Retrieved 8 March 2013 . ^ "Atletico Madrid upsets Real Madrid to win Copa del Rey" . Associated Press. 17 May 2013. Archived from the original on 16 April 2018 . Retrieved 4 December 2017 . ^ "Football: Atletico stun 10-man Real Madrid to win Spanish Cup" . Channel News Asia . Singapore. 17 May 2013. Archived from the original on 7 June 2013. ^ Martin, Richard (17 May 2014). "Barcelona 1 Atletico Madrid 1, La Liga: match report" . The Daily Telegraph . Archived from the original on 11 January 2022 . Retrieved 17 May 2014 . ^ "Real Madrid 4-1 Atletico Madrid" . BBC Sport . Archived from the original on 27 April 2019 . Retrieved 4 January 2022 . ^ Wire, S. I. (28 July 2014). "Atlético Madrid to sign forward Antoine Griezmann" . Sports Illustrated . Retrieved 2 October 2024 . ^ a b c d "Antoine Griezmann: Barcelona sign Atletico Madrid forward" . BBC Sport . 12 July 2019 . Retrieved 2 October 2024 . ^ "Real Madrid beat Atlético Madrid on penalties" . BBC Sport . Archived from the original on 8 November 2020 . Retrieved 28 May 2016 . ^ "El Vicente Calderón ya es historia" . La Vanguardia . 6 July 2020. Archived from the original on 1 June 2022 . Retrieved 1 June 2022 . ^ "The story of Atletico Madrid's new Wanda Metropolitano Stadium" . Sky Sports . Archived from the original on 9 May 2023 . Retrieved 9 May 2023 . ^ "Atletico beat Marseille to win Europa League" . BBC Sport . Archived from the original on 16 May 2018 . Retrieved 4 January 2022 . ^ sport, Guardian (15 August 2018). "Diego Costa double helps Atlético beat Real Madrid 4-2 in Uefa Super Cup" . the Guardian . Archived from the original on 28 April 2019 . Retrieved 4 January 2022 . ^ "Atletico Madrid: Luis Suarez signs from Barcelona on two-year deal" . BBC Sport . 25 September 2020 . Retrieved 2 October 2024 . ^ a b Corrigan, Dermot. "Luis Suarez's last hurrah at Atletico Madrid" . The New York Times . ISSN 0362-4331 . Retrieved 2 October 2024 . ^ a b "Atletico edge Real to La Liga title" . BBC Sport . Archived from the original on 23 May 2021 . Retrieved 23 May 2021 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Foundation and first years (1903–1939)

Foundation and first years (1903–1939) [ edit ] Enrique Allende , first President of the club after its establishment in 1903 An Athletic Madrid lineup of 1910 in their new red and white kit The club was founded on 26 April 1903 as Athletic Club Sucursal de Madrid by three Basque students living in Madrid . These founders saw the new club as a youth branch of their childhood team, Athletic Bilbao who they had just seen win the 1903 Copa del Rey Final in the city. In 1904, they were joined by dissident members of Real Madrid . They began playing in blue and white halved shirts, the then colours of Athletic Bilbao, but by 1910, both the Bilbao and Madrid teams were playing in their current colours of red and white stripes. Some believe the change came about because red and white striped tops were the cheapest to make, as the same combination was used to make ticking for mattresses , and the unused cloth was easily converted into football shirts. This contributed to the club's nickname, Los Colchoneros . However, another explanation is that both Athletic Bilbao and Athletic Madrid used to buy Blackburn Rovers ' blue and white kits in England. In late 1909, Juan Elorduy , a former player and member of the board of Athletic Madrid, went to England to buy kits for both teams but failed to find Blackburn kits to purchase; he instead bought the red and white shirts of Southampton (the club from the port city which was his embarkation point back to Spain). (Official position of both Southampton FC and Athletic Club). Athletic Madrid adopted the red and white shirt, leading to them being known as Los Rojiblancos , but opted to keep their existing blue shorts whereas the Bilbao team switched to new black shorts. Athletic Bilbao won the 1911 Copa del Rey Final using several 'borrowed' players from Athletic Madrid, including Manolón [ es ] who scored one of their goals. Athletic's first ground, the Ronda de Vallecas , was in the eponymous working-class area on the south side of the city. In 1919, the Compañía Urbanizadora Metropolitana—the company that ran the underground communication system in Madrid—acquired some land, near the Ciudad Universitaria . In 1921, Athletic Madrid became independent of parent-club Athletic Bilbao and moved into a 35,800-seater stadium built by the company, the Estadio Metropolitano de Madrid . During the 1920s, Athletic won the Campeonato del Centro three times and were Copa del Rey runners-up in 1921, where they faced parent club Athletic Bilbao, as they would again in 1926. Based on these successes, in 1928 they were invited to join the Primera División of the inaugural La Liga played the following year. During their debut La Liga campaign, the club was managed by Fred Pentland , but after two seasons they were relegated to Segunda División . They briefly returned to La Liga in 1934 but were relegated again in 1936 after Josep Samitier took over in mid-season from Pentland. The Spanish Civil War gave Los Colchoneros a reprieve, as Real Oviedo was unable to play due to the destruction of their stadium during the bombings. Thus, both La Liga and Athletic's relegation were postponed, the latter by winning a playoff against Osasuna , champion of the Segunda División tournament. ^ a b "Classic club" . FIFA . Archived from the original on 6 September 2011 . Retrieved 20 November 2010 . ^ "Atletico Madrid History" . Atleticomadrid.azplayers. Archived from the original on 7 July 2011 . Retrieved 20 November 2010 . ^ "Blackburn Rovers" . Historical Football Kits . Archived from the original on 18 May 2019 . Retrieved 10 October 2018 . ^ "The Atlético Crest and its Meaning – The Offside – Atlético Madrid Spanish La Liga Football Blog" . Atletico.theoffside. Archived from the original on 3 November 2010 . Retrieved 20 November 2010 . ^ "Southampton" . Historical Football Kits . Archived from the original on 11 October 2018 . Retrieved 10 October 2018 . ^ "Athletic-Atlético, historia de dos parientes" [Athletic-Atlético, history of two relatives]. ABC (in Spanish). 8 May 2012. Archived from the original on 31 March 2019 . Retrieved 10 October 2018 . ^ Agiriano, Jon (6 January 2010). "Los Colores del Siglo" [The colours of the century]. El Correo (in Spanish). Archived from the original on 4 December 2021 . Retrieved 15 October 2018 . ^ "Athletic de Madrid 1910-11" . Equipos de Fútbol (Football Teams) (in Spanish). 13 July 2016. Archived from the original on 11 October 2018 . Retrieved 10 October 2018 . ^ "Manuel Garnica, the "Saint" who scored a goal with Athletic" [Manuel Garnica, el "Santo" que metió un gol con el Athletic]. Memorias del Fútbol Vasco (Memories of Basque Football) (in Spanish). 30 March 2014. Archived from the original on 4 December 2021 . Retrieved 10 October 2018 . ^ "Talking History: Atlético Madrid – This Is Anfield (Liverpool FC)" . Thisisanfield. 26 April 2010. Archived from the original on 5 August 2010 . Retrieved 20 November 2010 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Athletic Aviación de Madrid (1939–1947)

Athletic Aviación de Madrid (1939–1947) [ edit ] By 1939, when La Liga had resumed, Athletic had merged with Aviación Nacional of Zaragoza to become Athletic Aviación de Madrid . Aviación Nacional had been founded in 1937 by three aviation officers of the Spanish Air Force . They had been promised a place in the Primera División for the 1939–40 season, only to be denied by the RFEF , and since they did not want to go through the whole divisional climb up, this club merged with Athletic, whose squad had lost eight players during the Civil War, including the team's star, Monchín Triana , who was shot dead. At that time, Real Oviedo also had its field destroyed by the war, so it was decided to give up its place to another team, and that finals spot was contested by Aviación and Osasuna , in a match in Valencia on 26 November 1939, which Aviación won 3–1. With the legendary Ricardo Zamora as manager, the club subsequently won their first La Liga title that season and retained the titles in 1941 . The most influential and charismatic player of these years was the captain Germán Gómez , who was signed from Racing Santander in 1939. He played eight consecutive seasons for the Rojiblancos until the 1947–48 campaign . From his central midfield position, he formed a legendary midfield alongside Machín and Ramón Gabilondo . In mid-1940, a decree issued by Francisco Franco banned teams from using foreign names and the club became Atlético Aviación de Madrid . In September 1940, Atlético Aviación won the first Super cup in Spanish football after beating RCD Español, the 1940 Copa del Generalísimo winners, in a two-legged game that ended in a 10–4 aggregate victory, including a 7–1 trashing in the second leg at Campo de Fútbol de Vallecas . On 14 December 1946, the club decided to drop the military association from its name, and shortly after, on 6 January, it settled on its current name of Club Atlético de Madrid . Also in 1947, Atlético beat Real Madrid 5–0 at the Metropolitano , their biggest win over their cross-town rivals to date. ^ a b "La historia desconocida del Atlético Aviación: el club que nunca fue el origen del Atlético de Madrid" [The unknown history of Atlético Aviación: the club that was never the origin of Atlético de Madrid]. www.larazon.es (in Spanish). 20 September 2021. Archived from the original on 7 October 2022 . Retrieved 7 October 2022 . ^ "La Liga History – Football League" . Ole Ole . 6 April 2009. Archived from the original on 6 March 2012 . Retrieved 20 November 2010 . ^ "A decree Spanishizes the names (1940)" [Un decreto españoliza los nombres (1940)]. as.com . 20 December 2016. Archived from the original on 9 October 2022 . Retrieved 9 October 2022 . ^ "Copa de Campeones" . RSSSF . 20 January 2022. Archived from the original on 21 May 2016 . Retrieved 9 October 2022 . ^ Real Madrid Vs. Atletico Madrid Archived 14 November 2018 at the Wayback Machine . Realatletico.com. Retrieved 20 November 2010.

______________________________________________________________________

### Golden age (1947–1965)

Golden age (1947–1965) [ edit ] Helenio Herrera won two league titles as Atlético manager. Under Helenio Herrera and with the help of Larbi Benbarek , Atlético won La Liga again in 1950 and 1951 . With the departure of Herrera in 1953, the club began to slip behind Real Madrid and Barcelona and for the remainder of the 1950s were left to battle it out with Athletic Bilbao for the title of third team in Spain. However, during the 1960s and 1970s, Atlético Madrid seriously challenged Barcelona for the position of second team. The 1957–58 season saw Ferdinand Daučík take charge of Atlético, where he led them to second place in La Liga. This resulted in Atlético qualifying for the 1958–59 European Cup since the winners, Real Madrid, were the reigning European champions. Inspired by Brazilian centre-forward Vavá and Enrique Collar , Atlético reached the semi-finals after beating Drumcondra , CSKA Sofia and Schalke 04 . In the semi-finals, they met Real Madrid, who won the first leg 2–1 at the Santiago Bernabéu while Atlético won 1–0 at the Metropolitano . The tie went to a replay and Real won 2–1 in Zaragoza. Atlético, however, gained their revenge when, led by former Real coach José Villalonga , they defeated Real in two successive Copa del Rey finals in 1960 and 1961 . In 1962, they won the European Cup Winners' Cup , beating Fiorentina 3–0 after a replay. This achievement was significant for the club, as the Cup Winners' Cup was the only major European trophy that Real Madrid never won. The following year, the club reached the 1963 finals, but lost to English side Tottenham Hotspur 5–1. Enrique Collar, who continued to be an influential player during this era, was now joined by the likes of midfielder Miguel Jones and midfield playmaker Adelardo . Atlético's best years coincided with dominant Real Madrid teams. Between 1961 and 1980, Real Madrid dominated La Liga, winning the competition 14 times. During this era, only Atlético offered Real any serious challenge, winning La Liga titles in 1966 , 1970 , 1973 and 1977 and finishing runners-up in 1961 , 1963 and 1965 . The club had further success winning the Copa del Rey on three occasions in 1965 , 1972 and 1976 . In 1965, when they finished as La Liga runners-up to Real after an intense battle for the titles, Atlético became the first team to beat Real at the Bernabéu in eight years. ^ European Cup & Champions League History 1955–2010 Archived 30 September 2017 at the Wayback Machine . Europeancuphistory.com. Retrieved 20 November 2010. ^ European Competitions 1958–59 Archived 12 January 2016 at the Wayback Machine . rsssf.org. Retrieved 20 November 2010. ^ "1958/59: Di Stéfano keeps Madrid rolling on" . Uefa.com . UEFA Champions League . 3 June 1959. Archived from the original on 1 May 2013 . Retrieved 20 November 2010 . ^ "UEFA Cup Winners' Cup" . Uefa.com . 1 June 1962. Archived from the original on 4 September 2015 . Retrieved 20 November 2010 . ^ "UEFA Cup Winners' Cup" . Uefa.com . 1 June 1963. Archived from the original on 12 January 2016 . Retrieved 20 November 2010 . ^ Adelardo, Adelardo Rodríguez Sánchez Archived 1 April 2018 at the Wayback Machine . BDFutbol (26 September 1939). Retrieved 20 November 2010.

______________________________________________________________________

### European Cup finalists (1965–1974)

European Cup finalists (1965–1974) [ edit ] Chart of Atleti's finishing positions in the Spanish football league system José Eulogio Gárate and Javier Irureta proved important attacking pieces of the squad that took Atlético to the 1974 European Cup final In 1966, Atlético left the Estadio Metropolitano de Madrid (which was demolished and was replaced with university buildings and an office block belonging to the company ENUSA) and moved to a new home in the Manzanares river waterfront, the Vicente Calderón Stadium , which was inaugurated on 2 October 1966 with a fixture against Valencia. Significant players from this era included the now-veteran Adelardo and regular goalscorers Luis Aragonés , Javier Irureta and José Eulogio Gárate , the latter winning the Pichichi three times in 1969, 1970 and 1971. In the 1970s, Atlético also recruited several Argentine players, signing Rubén Ayala , Panadero Díaz and Ramón "Cacho" Heredia as well as coach Juan Carlos Lorenzo . Lorenzo believed in discipline, caution and disrupting the opponents' game, and although controversial, his methods proved successful—after winning La Liga in 1973 , the club reached the 1974 European Cup Final . On the way to the Final, Atlético knocked out Galatasaray , Dinamo București , Red Star Belgrade and Celtic . In the away leg of the semi-finals against Celtic, Atlético had Ayala, Díaz and substitute Quique all sent off during a hard-fought encounter in what was reported as one of the worst cases of cynical fouling the tournament has seen. Because of this approach, they managed a 0–0 draw, followed by a 2–0 victory in the return leg with goals from Gárate and Adelardo. The finals at Heysel Stadium , however, was a loss for Atlético. Against a Bayern Munich team that included Franz Beckenbauer , Sepp Maier , Paul Breitner , Uli Hoeneß and Gerd Müller , Atlético played above themselves. Despite missing Ayala, Díaz and Quique through suspension, they went ahead in extra-time with only seven minutes left. Aragonés scored with a superb, curling free-kick that looked like the winner, but in the last minute of the game, Bayern defender Georg Schwarzenbeck equalized with a stunning 25-yarder that left Atlético goalkeeper Miguel Reina motionless. In a replay back at Heysel two days later, Bayern won convincingly 4–0, with two goals each from Hoeneß and Müller. ^ Santos, Eric (3 October 2016). "Así fue el primer partido del Calderón" . Cadena SER . Archived from the original on 1 June 2022 . Retrieved 1 June 2022 . ^ "1973/74: Müller ends Bayern wait –" . UEFA . 15 May 1974. Archived from the original on 24 July 2017 . Retrieved 8 March 2013 . ^ European Competitions 1973–74 Archived 6 October 2009 at the Wayback Machine . rsssf.org. Retrieved 20 November 2010. ^ European Cup & Champions League History 1955–2010 Archived 26 February 2014 at the Wayback Machine . Europeancuphistory.com. Retrieved 20 November 2010. ^ a b "1973/74: Müller ends Bayern wait on" . Uefa.com . UEFA Champions League . 15 May 1974. Archived from the original on 11 October 2010 . Retrieved 20 November 2010 .

______________________________________________________________________

### The Aragonés years (1974–1987)

The Aragonés years (1974–1987) [ edit ] Luis Aragonés , Atlético's most successful manager Shortly after the defeat in the 1974 European Cup Final , Atlético appointed their veteran player Luis Aragonés as coach. Aragonés subsequently was coach on four separate occasions, from 1974 to 1980, from 1982 to 1987, once again from 1991 until 1993 and finally from 2002 to 2003. His first success came quickly as Bayern Munich had refused to participate in the Intercontinental Cup because of fixture congestion, and as European Cup runners-up, Atlético were invited instead. Their opponents were Independiente of Argentina and, after losing the away leg 1–0, they won the return leg 2–0 with goals from Javier Irureta and Rubén Ayala . Aragonés subsequently led the club to further successes in the Copa del Rey in 1976 and La Liga in 1977 . During his second spell in charge, Aragonés led the club to a runners-up finish in La Liga and a winner's medal in the Copa del Rey , both in 1985. He received considerable help from Hugo Sánchez , who scored 19 league goals and won the Pichichi . Sánchez also scored twice in the cup finals as Atlético beat Athletic Bilbao 2–1. Sánchez, however, only remained at the club for one season before his move across the city to Real Madrid. Despite the loss of Sánchez, Aragonés went on to lead the club to success in the Supercopa de España in 1985 and then guided them to the European Cup Winners' Cup final in 1986 . Atlético, however, lost their third successive European finals, this time 3–0 to Dynamo Kyiv . ^ a b "Intercontinental Cup 1974" . FIFA.com . Archived from the original on 4 December 2009 . Retrieved 20 November 2010 . ^ Intercontinental Club Cup 1974 Archived 27 November 2022 at the Wayback Machine . rsssf.org. Retrieved 20 November 2010. ^ "UEFA Cup Winners' Cup" . Uefa.com . 1 June 1986. Archived from the original on 21 August 2010 . Retrieved 20 November 2010 . ^ European Competitions 1985–86 Archived 14 March 2023 at the Wayback Machine . rsssf.org. Retrieved 20 November 2010.

______________________________________________________________________

### The Transition years (1987–2005)

The Transition years (1987–2005) [ edit ] Donato played in Atlético between 1988 and 1993. Radomir Antić managed Atlético in three stints during the ownership of Jesús Gil , winning a league and cup double in 1996. In 1987, controversial politician and businessman Jesús Gil became club president, running the club (and committing a fraud of misappropriation by seizing 95% of the shares while failing to effectively pay a single Peseta during the Atlético's forced conversion from fan-owned club to Sociedad Anónima Deportiva in 1992) until his resignation in May 2003. Atlético had not won La Liga for ten years and were desperate for league success. Right away, Gil spent heavily, bringing in a number of expensive signings, most notably Portuguese winger Paulo Futre , who had just won the European Cup with Porto . All the spending, however, only brought in two consecutive Copa del Rey trophies in 1991 and 1992 as the league titles proved elusive. The closest Atlético came to the La Liga trophy was the 1990–91 season when they finished runners-up by 10 points to Johan Cruyff 's Barcelona . In the process, Gil developed a ruthless reputation due to the manner in which he ran the club. In pursuit of league success, he hired and fired a number of high-profile head coaches, including César Luis Menotti , Ron Atkinson , Javier Clemente , Tomislav Ivić , Francisco Maturana and Alfio Basile , as well as club legend Luis Aragonés. Gil also closed down Atlético's youth academy in 1992, a move that would prove significant due to 15-year-old academy member Raúl who, as a result, went across town to later achieve worldwide fame with rivals Real Madrid. The move came as part of the overall Gil-initiated business restructuring of the club; Atlético became a Sociedad Anónima Deportiva, a corporate structure benefiting from a then-recently introduced special legal status under Spanish corporate law, allowing individuals to purchase and trade club shares. In the 1994–95 league campaign, Atlético only avoided relegation via a draw on the last day of the season. This prompted another managerial change along with a wholesale squad clearance during the summer 1995 transfer window. Somewhat unexpectedly, in the following 1995–96 season, newly arrived head coach Radomir Antić , with a squad including holdovers Toni , Roberto Solozábal , Delfí Geli , Juan Vizcaíno , José Luis Caminero , Diego Simeone and Kiko , as well as new acquisitions Milinko Pantić , Lyuboslav Penev , Santi Denia and José Francisco Molina finally delivered the much sought-after league titles as Atlético won the La Liga / Copa del Rey double. The next season, 1996–97, saw the club take part in the UEFA Champions League for the first time. With expectations and ambitions raised, the most notable summer transfer signings were striker Juan Esnáider from Real Madrid and Radek Bejbl , who was coming off a great showing for Czech Republic at Euro 1996 . Playing on two fronts, Atlético fell out of the league title contention early while, in the Champions League, they were eliminated by Ajax in extra-time in the quarter-finals. Before the 1997–98 season, the heavy spending continued with the signings of Christian Vieri and Juninho . All of the success, however, produced little change in the overall Gil strategy, and although Antić survived three consecutive seasons in charge, he was replaced during the summer of 1998 with Arrigo Sacchi , who himself only remained in the managerial hot seat for less than six months. Antić then returned briefly in early 1999 only to be replaced with Claudio Ranieri at the end of the season. Fernando Torres , who began his career at Atlético, achieved notable success with the Spain national team The 1999–2000 season proved disastrous for Atlético. In December 1999, Gil and his board were suspended pending an investigation into the misuse of club funds, with government-appointed administrator José Manuel Rubí running Atlético's day-to-day operations. With the removal of club President Jesús Gil and his board, the players performed poorly and the club floundered. Ranieri handed in his resignation with the club sitting 17th out of 20 in the league table and heading towards relegation. Antić, returning for his third coaching stint, was unable to prevent the inevitable. Despite reaching the Copa del Rey final in 2000, Atlético were relegated for the second time in 66 years. The club spent two seasons in the Segunda División, narrowly missing out on promotion in 2000–01 season before winning the Segunda División championship in 2002. It was again Aragonés, in his fourth and last spell as manager of Atlético, who brought them back to the Primera División. Aragonés also coached the team during the next season, and gave Fernando Torres his La Liga debut. Torres came through the academy of the club and was a hot prospect in Spain; in his first season in the league, 2002–03 , he scored 13 goals in 29 appearances. In July 2003, soon after his takeover of the club, Chelsea owner Roman Abramovich offered £28 million for Torres, which was rejected by Atlético. In the 2003–04 season , Torres continued his success as he scored 19 league goals in 35 appearances, making him the joint third-highest scorer in the league. Torres had been at Atlético since the age of 11 and his precocious talent led to him becoming the club's youngest ever captain at the age of just 19. ^ Cruz, Sergio de la (30 June 2018). "Historia de un delito prescrito: así perdió su equipo la afición del Atlético de Madrid" . El Economista . Archived from the original on 23 May 2022 . Retrieved 1 June 2022 . ^ "Atletico owner Gil dies" . BBC News . 14 May 2004. Archived from the original on 16 February 2021 . Retrieved 5 July 2012 . ^ Futre, Paulo Jorge Dos Santos Futre Archived 21 April 2020 at the Wayback Machine . BDFutbol (28 February 1966). Retrieved 20 November 2010. ^ Lowe, Sid (3 November 2009). "Are 'madhouse' Atlético Madrid the worst run club in Europe?" . The Guardian . London. Archived from the original on 5 March 2017 . Retrieved 11 December 2016 . ^ Raúl González Archived 25 April 2012 at the Wayback Machine , spanish-fiestas.com ^ Cite error: The named reference autogenerated1 was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ Lowe, Sid (18 April 2010). "Atlético Madrid can put end to glory of suffering in Liverpool semi" . The Guardian . London. Archived from the original on 5 March 2017 . Retrieved 11 December 2016 . ^ Atletico Madrid Season Needs Flores Formula Archived 6 February 2021 at the Wayback Machine . Insidefutbol.com (1 December 2009). Retrieved 20 November 2010. ^ "Fernando Torres Career" . Torres Soccer Profiles . Archived from the original on 9 January 2011 . Retrieved 20 November 2010 . ^ "Primer equipo" (in Spanish). Fernando Torres. Archived from the original on 1 May 2013 . Retrieved 17 November 2008 . ^ a b "Torres" . FootballDatabase . Archived from the original on 15 February 2009 . Retrieved 8 June 2008 . ^ "Chelsea sign Bridge" . The Daily Telegraph . London. 21 July 2003. Archived from the original on 11 January 2022 . Retrieved 30 January 2013 . ^ "Statistics: top scorers: 2003/2004" . ESPN FC . Archived from the original on 21 April 2020 . Retrieved 5 August 2014 . ^ "Liverpool complete Torres signing" . 4 July 2007 . Retrieved 3 October 2024 . ^ Lowe, Sid (4 July 2007). "Will Torres be Kop's new God or just another Fernando?" . The Guardian . London. Archived from the original on 14 February 2022 . Retrieved 5 August 2014 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Torres sale and eventual European success (2006–2011)

Torres sale and eventual European success (2006–2011) [ edit ] Atlético fans during a Madrid derby in February 2007 played at the Vicente Calderón Stadium . In 2006, Atlético signed Portuguese midfielders Costinha and Maniche , as well as Argentine forward Sergio Agüero . In July 2007, Torres left the club for Liverpool for €38 million, while Luis García signed for the club at the same time in an unrelated transfer. The club also bought Uruguay international and former European Golden Boot and Pichichi winners Diego Forlán for roughly €21 million from Villarreal . Other additions included Portuguese winger Simão Sabrosa from Benfica for €20 million and winger José Antonio Reyes from Arsenal for €12 million. In July 2007, the Atlético board reached an agreement with the City of Madrid to sell the land where their stadium was located and move the club to the City-owned Olympic Stadium . The stadium changed hands in 2016 and was bought by the club for €30.4 million. Madrid had applied to host the 2016 Olympic Games , losing out to Rio de Janeiro . The 2007–08 season proved to be the most successful season for the club in the past decade. The team reached the round of 32 in the UEFA Cup , where they were defeated by Bolton Wanderers . They also reached the quarter-finals round of the Copa del Rey , where they were beaten by eventual champions Valencia . More significantly, the team finished the league season in fourth place, qualifying for the UEFA Champions League for the first time since the 1996–97 season . On 3 February 2009, Javier Aguirre was dismissed from his post as manager after a poor start to the season, going without a win in six games. He later claimed that this was not accurate, and that he had left by mutual termination rather than through sacking. There was public outrage after his dismissal, many believing he was not the cause of Atlético's problems, namely player Diego Forlán. He backed his former manager and said that, "Dismissing Javier was the easy way out, but he was not the cause of our problems. The players are to blame because we have not been playing well and we have been committing a lot of errors." This led to the appointment of Abel Resino as Atlético's new manager. Atlético's success continued in the latter half of the season when they placed fourth once again in the league table, securing a position in the playoff round of the UEFA Champions League. Striker Diego Forlán was crowned with the Pichichi and also won the European Golden Shoe after scoring 32 goals for Atlético that season. Atlético saw this domestic success as an opportunity to reinforce their squad for the upcoming Champions League season. They replaced veteran goalkeeper Leo Franco with David de Gea from the youth ranks and signed promising youngster Sergio Asenjo from Real Valladolid . Atlético also acquired Real Betis defender and Spanish international Juanito on a free transfer. Despite pressure from big clubs to sell star players Agüero and Forlán, Atlético remained committed to keeping their strong attacking base in the hopes for a successful new season. Atlético's striker partnership during this era: Sergio Agüero (left) and Diego Forlán (right). Forlán won the European Golden Shoe in 2009. The 2009–10 season , however, began poorly with many defeats and goals conceded. On 21 October, Atletico were hammered 4–0 by English club Chelsea in the Champions League group stage. This defeat led Atletico's management to announce that manager Abel Resino had to leave. After failing to sign Danish former footballer Michael Laudrup , Atlético Madrid announced that the new manager for the rest of the season would be Quique Sánchez Flores . With the arrival of Sánchez Flores as coach in October 2009, Atlético improved in many of their competition. Atlético continued to lag somewhat in La Liga during the 2009–10 season, finishing in ninth position, but managed to finish third in their 2009–10 UEFA Champions League group stage and subsequently entered the Europa League in the round of 32. Atlético went on to win the Europa League, beating English teams Liverpool in the semi-finals and eventually Fulham in the finals held at HSH Nordbank Arena in Hamburg on 12 May 2010. Diego Forlán scored twice, the second being an extra-time winner in the 116th minute, as Atlético won 2–1. It was the first time since the 1961–62 European Cup Winners' Cup that Atlético had claimed a European titles. They also reached the Copa del Rey finals on 19 May 2010, where they faced Sevilla , but lost 2–0 at the Camp Nou in Barcelona . By winning the Europa League, they qualified for the 2010 UEFA Super Cup against Inter Milan , winner of the 2009–10 UEFA Champions League. The match was played at the Stade Louis II , Monaco on 27 August 2010. Atlético won 2–0 with goals from José Antonio Reyes and Agüero, making it the club's first win in the UEFA Super Cup . Atlético had a comparatively disappointing 2010–11 season, finishing only seventh in the League and being eliminated in the quarter-finals of the Copa del Rey and the group stage of the Europa League . This ultimately led to the departure of manager Sánchez Flores before the conclusion of the season, who was replaced with ex-Sevilla manager Gregorio Manzano . ^ UEFA.com (10 August 2006). "Costinha aims high with Atlético" . UEFA . Archived from the original on 6 January 2022 . Retrieved 6 January 2022 . ^ a b Torres cuts short holiday, set to join Liverpool Archived 23 October 2012 at the Wayback Machine Soccernet.espn.go.com (3 July 2007). Retrieved 20 November 2010. ^ Austin, Simon (22 October 2008). "New and improved Forlan to test Liverpool" . BBC News . Archived from the original on 6 February 2021 . Retrieved 20 July 2010 . ^ Reyes goes to Atleti Archived 13 January 2009 at the Wayback Machine , Marca 29 July 2007 (in Spanish) ^ "Reyes passes Atletico Madrid medical" . Goal . 30 July 2007. Archived from the original on 30 September 2007. ^ "El Atlético compra el estadio de La Peineta por 30 millones" . AS.com (in Spanish). 13 March 2017. Archived from the original on 7 September 2021 . Retrieved 6 January 2022 . ^ "Atletico Madrid to move to city's Olympic stadium" . The Guardian . 30 July 2007. Archived from the original on 17 November 2007 . Retrieved 6 February 2023 . ^ UEFA.com (14 February 2008). "Bolton joy as Diouf downs Atlético" . UEFA . Archived from the original on 10 January 2022 . Retrieved 10 January 2022 . ^ European Competitions 1996–97 Archived 21 February 2023 at the Wayback Machine . rsssf.org. Retrieved 20 November 2010. ^ Javier Aguirre Walks Away From Atletico Archived 4 October 2011 at the Wayback Machine . TheOriginalWinger.com (3 February 2009). Retrieved 20 November 2010. ^ Spanish Football News (4 February 2009). "Abel Resino: Atletico Madrid job dream come true" . Tribal Football . Archived from the original on 7 February 2009 . Retrieved 20 November 2010 . ^ "Diego Forlán reveals folly of defying Sir Alex Ferguson's footwear advice" . The Guardian . 14 September 2009. Archived from the original on 9 March 2021 . Retrieved 22 April 2021 . ^ "Official: Atletico Madrid Sign Juanito From Real Betis | Goal.com" . www.goal.com . Archived from the original on 6 January 2022 . Retrieved 6 January 2022 . ^ Fletcher, Paul (21 October 2009). "Chelsea 4–0 Atletico Madrid" . BBC Sport . Archived from the original on 1 May 2021 . Retrieved 13 May 2010 . ^ "Atletico Madrid sack coach Resino" . BBC Sport . 23 October 2009. Archived from the original on 26 October 2009 . Retrieved 24 October 2009 . ^ "Quique to Atletico Madrid" . La Liga Weekly . 23 October 2009. Archived from the original on 30 October 2009 . Retrieved 20 November 2010 . ^ "Quique Sánchez Flores to be manager at Atlético de Madrid" . Typically Spanish . 24 October 2009. Archived from the original on 1 March 2012 . Retrieved 20 November 2010 . ^ UEFA.com (29 April 2010). "Forlán puts Atlético on the highway to Hamburg" . UEFA . Archived from the original on 6 January 2022 . Retrieved 6 January 2022 . ^ "Atletico Madrid coach Quique Sanchez Flores hails players' resolve against Fulham" . The Daily Telegraph . London. 13 May 2010. Archived from the original on 22 May 2010. ^ Ornstein, David (29 April 2010). "Liverpool 2 – 1 Atletico Madrid (agg 2 – 2)" . BBC Sport . Archived from the original on 12 May 2010 . Retrieved 13 May 2010 . ^ "Late winner breaks Fulham hearts" . ESPNsoccernet . 12 May 2010. Archived from the original on 18 May 2010 . Retrieved 13 May 2010 . ^ Winter, Henry (12 May 2010). "Fulham 1 Atlético Madrid 2 aet: match report" . The Daily Telegraph . HSH Nordbank Arena , Hamburg. Archived from the original on 15 May 2010 . Retrieved 12 May 2010 . ^ Report: Atlético Madrid v Sevilla FC – Spanish Copa del Rey – ESPN Soccernet Archived 23 October 2012 at the Wayback Machine . Soccernet.espn.go.com (20 May 2010). Retrieved 20 November 2010. ^ UEFA.com (6 June 2011). "2010 Super Cup: Atlético win on Super Cup debut" . UEFA . Archived from the original on 6 January 2022 . Retrieved 6 January 2022 . ^ App (14 May 2011). "Sanchez Flores to leave Atletico Madrid" . fourfourtwo.com . Archived from the original on 4 January 2022 . Retrieved 4 January 2022 . ^ "Official: Atletico Madrid appoint Gregorio Manzano as coach on one-year terms | Goal.com" . www.goal.com . Archived from the original on 4 January 2022 . Retrieved 4 January 2022 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Simeone revolution and revival of Atlético success (2011–present)

Simeone revolution and revival of Atlético success (2011–present) [ edit ] Diego Simeone has led the club to two UEFA Champions League finals On 23 December 2011, Atlético appointed their former Argentine player, Diego Simeone , as manager in place of Manzano. The club were in a period of uncertainty, having appointed five managers in less than three years and allowing young talents, namely Agüero and de Gea, to leave for the Premier League . The team was sitting 10th in La Liga at the time of Simeone's appointment, after losing four of their last five games. The appointment of Simeone was seen as a risk, who was relatively inexperienced and previously only had European managerial experience with Italian underdogs Catania . However, he swiftly transformed Atlético into a formidable force. As a player, Simeone was known as a fierce, all-action midfielder; he brought the same relentless, win-at-all-costs mentality to Atlético as manager. His focus was on building a strong defence, anchored by teenage Chelsea loanee goalkeeper Thibaut Courtois and Uruguayan centre-back Diego Godín . The results were immediate, as Simeone's first six games in charge featured six clean sheets. According to Spanish football writer Andy West, Atlético fans came to quickly to embrace Simeone, especially in light of his role as a pivotal player in their 1995-96 league and cup double. Simeone led Atlético to their second Europa League win in the three years since its creation; Atlético beat Athletic Bilbao 3–0 in the final on 9 May 2012 at National Arena in Bucharest with two goals from Radamel Falcao and one from Diego . By winning the Europa League again, Atlético qualified for the 2012 UEFA Super Cup against Chelsea, winners of the previous season's Champions League . The game was played at the Stade Louis II, Monaco on 31 August 2012; Atlético won 4–1, including a hat-trick by Falcao in the first half. On 17 May 2013, Atlético beat Real Madrid 2–1 in the Copa del Rey final in a tense match where both teams finished with ten men. This ended a 14-year and 25-match winless streak in the Madrid derby . The 2012–13 season saw the club finish with three trophies in a little over a year. On 17 May 2014, a 1–1 draw at the Camp Nou against Barcelona secured the La Liga title for Atlético, their first since 1996, and the first titles since 2003–04 not won by Barcelona or Real Madrid. One week later, Atlético faced city rivals Real Madrid in their first Champions League final since 1974, and the first played between two sides from the same city. They took a first-half lead through Godín and led until the third minute of injury time, when Sergio Ramos headed in an equaliser from a corner; the match went to extra time, and Real ultimately won 4–1. Antoine Griezmann , Atlético's all-time top scorer, with the UEFA Europa League title in 2018 Antoine Griezmann , who had a standout season in La Liga and featured at the 2014 FIFA World Cup , joined Atlético from Real Sociedad on 28 July 2014. During his first stint with the club, Griezmann was Atlético's top scorer for five consecutive seasons. He established himself as a world-class player at Atlético, also shining on the international stage as he finished as the top scorer at UEFA Euro 2016 and earned the tournament's best player award. That same year , he placed third in the Ballon d'Or rankings, behind Lionel Messi and Cristiano Ronaldo . Atlético reached a second Champions League final in three seasons in 2015–16 , again facing Real Madrid, and lost on penalties after a 1–1 draw. The club played their last home game at the Vicente Calderón Stadium on 21 May 2017, thereby moving to a new home, the refurbished Wanda Metropolitano in eastern Madrid. In 2018, they won their third Europa League title in nine years by beating Marseille 3–0 in the finals at the Stade de Lyon in Lyon , courtesy of a brace from Griezmann and a goal from club captain Gabi in what would be his last match for the club. Atlético also won another UEFA Super Cup after beating Real Madrid 4–2 at the outset of the following season at the Lilleküla Arena in Tallinn . Simeone celebrating the La Liga title win in 2021 On 25 September 2020, Atlético signed Luis Suárez from Barcelona. One of the world's best strikers, Suárez made a dramatic impact at the club, as he played a pivotal role in their unexpected La Liga title triumph, seven years after the 2013–14 win. He scored 17 goals in his first 19 La Liga matches, helping Atlético establish a 10-point lead by January. Although the team wavered later in the season, Suárez's relentless competitive drive proved decisive, as he netted crucial goals in the final two games to secure the title. The final game of the title-winning season was on 22 May 2021, a 2–1 win at the José Zorrilla Stadium against Valladolid . On April 16, 2024, the team qualified to the 2025 FIFA Club World Cup for first time in club's history, despite being eliminated in the 2023–24 Champions League , as Barcelona were also eliminated, and Atlético were the higher ranked Spanish club in the UEFA four-year ranking. ^ "Diego Simeone appointed Atletico boss" . Sports Mole . 24 December 2011 . Retrieved 2 October 2024 . ^ a b c d e f "Diego Simeone: 'He's totally transformed Atletico Madrid' - but is he suffering an identity crisis?" . BBC Sport . 23 December 2021 . Retrieved 2 October 2024 . ^ "Atletico Madrid sack boss Gregorio Manzano" . ESPN.com . 22 December 2011. Archived from the original on 4 January 2022 . Retrieved 4 January 2022 . ^ App (23 December 2011). "Simeone replaces Manzano at Atletico" . fourfourtwo.com . Archived from the original on 4 January 2022 . Retrieved 4 January 2022 . ^ Wilson, Jonathan (9 May 2012). "Atlético Madrid 3–0 Athletic Bilbao" . The Guardian . London. Archived from the original on 25 April 2018 . Retrieved 11 December 2016 . ^ "Atl. Madrid 3–0 Athletic Bilbao: EL champs" . Goal.com. 9 May 2012. Archived from the original on 17 June 2019 . Retrieved 8 March 2013 . ^ "Atletico Madrid upsets Real Madrid to win Copa del Rey" . Associated Press. 17 May 2013. Archived from the original on 16 April 2018 . Retrieved 4 December 2017 . ^ "Football: Atletico stun 10-man Real Madrid to win Spanish Cup" . Channel News Asia . Singapore. 17 May 2013. Archived from the original on 7 June 2013. ^ Martin, Richard (17 May 2014). "Barcelona 1 Atletico Madrid 1, La Liga: match report" . The Daily Telegraph . Archived from the original on 11 January 2022 . Retrieved 17 May 2014 . ^ "Real Madrid 4-1 Atletico Madrid" . BBC Sport . Archived from the original on 27 April 2019 . Retrieved 4 January 2022 . ^ Wire, S. I. (28 July 2014). "Atlético Madrid to sign forward Antoine Griezmann" . Sports Illustrated . Retrieved 2 October 2024 . ^ a b c d "Antoine Griezmann: Barcelona sign Atletico Madrid forward" . BBC Sport . 12 July 2019 . Retrieved 2 October 2024 . ^ "Real Madrid beat Atlético Madrid on penalties" . BBC Sport . Archived from the original on 8 November 2020 . Retrieved 28 May 2016 . ^ "El Vicente Calderón ya es historia" . La Vanguardia . 6 July 2020. Archived from the original on 1 June 2022 . Retrieved 1 June 2022 . ^ "The story of Atletico Madrid's new Wanda Metropolitano Stadium" . Sky Sports . Archived from the original on 9 May 2023 . Retrieved 9 May 2023 . ^ "Atletico beat Marseille to win Europa League" . BBC Sport . Archived from the original on 16 May 2018 . Retrieved 4 January 2022 . ^ sport, Guardian (15 August 2018). "Diego Costa double helps Atlético beat Real Madrid 4-2 in Uefa Super Cup" . the Guardian . Archived from the original on 28 April 2019 . Retrieved 4 January 2022 . ^ "Atletico Madrid: Luis Suarez signs from Barcelona on two-year deal" . BBC Sport . 25 September 2020 . Retrieved 2 October 2024 . ^ a b Corrigan, Dermot. "Luis Suarez's last hurrah at Atletico Madrid" . The New York Times . ISSN 0362-4331 . Retrieved 2 October 2024 . ^ a b "Atletico edge Real to La Liga title" . BBC Sport . Archived from the original on 23 May 2021 . Retrieved 23 May 2021 .

______________________________________________________________________

## Recent seasons

Recent seasons [ edit ] Statistics from the previous decade. For a full history see; List of Atlético Madrid seasons Year Domestic League Level Pld W D L GF GA GD Pts Position King's Cup UEFA Champions League UEFA Europa League Average attendance 2012–13 La Liga 1 38 23 7 8 65 31 +34 76 3rd of 20 W - R32 44,296 2013–14 28 6 4 77 26 +51 90 1st of 20 SF RU - 46,247 2014–15 23 9 6 67 29 +38 78 3rd of 20 QF QF - 46,532 2015–16 28 4 6 63 18 +45 88 QF RU - 47,113 2016–17 23 9 6 70 27 +43 78 SF SF - 44,710 2017–18 23 10 5 58 22 +36 79 2nd of 20 QF GS W 55,483 2018–19 22 10 6 55 29 +26 76 R16 R16 - 56,074 2019–20 18 16 4 51 27 +24 70 3rd of 20 R32 QF - 57,198 2020–21 26 8 4 67 25 +42 86 1st of 20 R2 R16 - N/A 2021–22 21 8 9 65 43 +22 71 3rd of 20 R16 QF - N/A 2022–23 23 8 7 70 33 +37 77 QF GS - 55,800 2023–24 24 4 10 70 43 +27 76 4th of 20 SF QF - 59.731 Seasons spent at Level 1 of the Spanish League system ( La Liga ): 88 Seasons spent at Level 2 of the Spanish League system ( Segunda División ): 6 ^ a b c d e f g h "La Liga Average Attendances" . European Football Statistics. Archived from the original on 5 February 2020 . Retrieved 31 October 2022 .

______________________________________________________________________

## Rivalries

Rivalries [ edit ] Real Madrid [ edit ] Further information: Madrid derby Madrid derby in 2014 Real Madrid and Atlético Madrid are clubs with contrasting identities and different fates. While Real Madrid's Santiago Bernabéu proudly rises on the Paseo de la Castellana in the wealthy Chamartín neighbourhood of northern Madrid, Atlético's former stadium, the less glamorous Vicente Calderón , stood in the central-south of Madrid 1.8 km from the city center in the working class barrio of Arganzuela . Historically, Real Madrid have long been seen as the establishment club. On the other side, Atlético Madrid were always characterized by a sentimiento de rebeldía , a sense of rebellion. They were associated with the military airforce (renamed Atlético Aviación), until the regime's preferences moved towards Real Madrid in the 1950s. Certainly, the dictatorial state sought to make political capital out of Real Madrid's European Cup trophies at a time when Spain was internationally isolated; "Real Madrid are the best embassy we ever had", said Franco's foreign minister Fernando Maria de Castiella. Such perceptions have had an important impact on the city's footballing identities, tapping into the collective consciousness . In this vein, Atlético fans were probably the originators, and are the most frequent singers, of the song, sung to the tune of the Real Madrid anthem, "Hala Madrid, hala Madrid, el equipo del gobierno, la vergüenza del país" , "Go Madrid, go Madrid, the government's team, the country's shame." Until recently, Atlético Madrid had struggled significantly in the derby, carrying a 14-year winless streak into the 2012–13 season . This spell ended, however, on 17 May 2013 after Atlético beat their city rivals 2–1 at the Santiago Bernabéu in the 2013 Copa del Rey finals , and continued on 29 September 2013 when they won a 1–0 victory, again at the Bernabéu. The two faced each other in the 2014 and 2016 UEFA Champions League finals , with Real Madrid winning both matches. Barcelona [ edit ] Although less famous than the Derbi Madrileño, a historic rivalry exists between Atlético Madrid and Barcelona , which is also considered one of the "Classics" of Spanish football. Once lopsided in favor of the Catalan club, this rivalry has become competitive since the early 2010s, marked by events such as the 2016 Champions League knockout phase where Atletico Madrid upset Barcelona, the controversial departure of French striker Antoine Griezmann from the Madrid club to the Catalan club in 2019 (and his subsequent return in 2021 amid Barcelona's financial struggles), and the surprise move of Luis Suárez to Atlético in 2020, a move which saw the Uruguyan star play a crucial role in the team's championship run. However, by tradition and current affairs, the greatest rivalry is that which exists with its " merengues " neighbors. ^ "Why everything you know about the Madrid derby might be wrong" . fourfourtwo.com . 7 January 2015. Archived from the original on 3 June 2021 . Retrieved 23 April 2021 . ^ "Simply the best – all-time greats final selection" Archived 10 October 2016 at the Wayback Machine , Telegraph, 29 December 2000. ^ "Atléti-Barça: History of a rivalry" (in Spanish). FIFA. Archived from the original on 25 July 2018 . Retrieved 14 August 2019 . ^ "Duels between Barça and Atlético enclose as much history as the Classic" (in Spanish). Mundo Deportivo. 15 December 2012. Archived from the original on 14 August 2019 . Retrieved 14 August 2019 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Real Madrid

Real Madrid [ edit ] Further information: Madrid derby Madrid derby in 2014 Real Madrid and Atlético Madrid are clubs with contrasting identities and different fates. While Real Madrid's Santiago Bernabéu proudly rises on the Paseo de la Castellana in the wealthy Chamartín neighbourhood of northern Madrid, Atlético's former stadium, the less glamorous Vicente Calderón , stood in the central-south of Madrid 1.8 km from the city center in the working class barrio of Arganzuela . Historically, Real Madrid have long been seen as the establishment club. On the other side, Atlético Madrid were always characterized by a sentimiento de rebeldía , a sense of rebellion. They were associated with the military airforce (renamed Atlético Aviación), until the regime's preferences moved towards Real Madrid in the 1950s. Certainly, the dictatorial state sought to make political capital out of Real Madrid's European Cup trophies at a time when Spain was internationally isolated; "Real Madrid are the best embassy we ever had", said Franco's foreign minister Fernando Maria de Castiella. Such perceptions have had an important impact on the city's footballing identities, tapping into the collective consciousness . In this vein, Atlético fans were probably the originators, and are the most frequent singers, of the song, sung to the tune of the Real Madrid anthem, "Hala Madrid, hala Madrid, el equipo del gobierno, la vergüenza del país" , "Go Madrid, go Madrid, the government's team, the country's shame." Until recently, Atlético Madrid had struggled significantly in the derby, carrying a 14-year winless streak into the 2012–13 season . This spell ended, however, on 17 May 2013 after Atlético beat their city rivals 2–1 at the Santiago Bernabéu in the 2013 Copa del Rey finals , and continued on 29 September 2013 when they won a 1–0 victory, again at the Bernabéu. The two faced each other in the 2014 and 2016 UEFA Champions League finals , with Real Madrid winning both matches. ^ "Why everything you know about the Madrid derby might be wrong" . fourfourtwo.com . 7 January 2015. Archived from the original on 3 June 2021 . Retrieved 23 April 2021 . ^ "Simply the best – all-time greats final selection" Archived 10 October 2016 at the Wayback Machine , Telegraph, 29 December 2000.

______________________________________________________________________

### Barcelona

Barcelona [ edit ] Although less famous than the Derbi Madrileño, a historic rivalry exists between Atlético Madrid and Barcelona , which is also considered one of the "Classics" of Spanish football. Once lopsided in favor of the Catalan club, this rivalry has become competitive since the early 2010s, marked by events such as the 2016 Champions League knockout phase where Atletico Madrid upset Barcelona, the controversial departure of French striker Antoine Griezmann from the Madrid club to the Catalan club in 2019 (and his subsequent return in 2021 amid Barcelona's financial struggles), and the surprise move of Luis Suárez to Atlético in 2020, a move which saw the Uruguyan star play a crucial role in the team's championship run. However, by tradition and current affairs, the greatest rivalry is that which exists with its " merengues " neighbors. ^ "Atléti-Barça: History of a rivalry" (in Spanish). FIFA. Archived from the original on 25 July 2018 . Retrieved 14 August 2019 . ^ "Duels between Barça and Atlético enclose as much history as the Classic" (in Spanish). Mundo Deportivo. 15 December 2012. Archived from the original on 14 August 2019 . Retrieved 14 August 2019 .

______________________________________________________________________

## Honours

Honours [ edit ] Main article: List of Atlético Madrid honours and achievements Trophy cabinet Celebrations of Atlético Madrid after winning the 2013–14 La Liga titles Type Competition Titles Seasons Domestic La Liga 11 1939–40 , 1940–41 , 1949–50 , 1950–51 , 1965–66 , 1969–70 , 1972–73 , 1976–77 , 1995–96 , 2013–14 , 2020–21 Segunda División 1 2001–02 Copa del Rey 10 1959–60 , 1960–61 , 1964–65 , 1971–72 , 1975–76 , 1984–85 , 1990–91 , 1991–92 , 1995–96 , 2012–13 Supercopa de España 2 1985 , 2014 Copa Presidente FEF 1 1941-47 Copa Eva Duarte 1 1951 Continental UEFA Europa League 3 2009–10 , 2011–12 , 2017–18 UEFA Cup Winners' Cup 1 1961–62 UEFA Super Cup 3 2010 , 2012 , 2018 Worldwide Intercontinental Cup 1 1974 Regional Campeonato de Madrid/Campeonato Regional Centro 4 1920–21, 1924–25, 1927–28, 1939–40 Copa Federación Centro 1 1940–41 record s shared record Awards & recognitions [ edit ] Copa Stadium (Spain's oldest National Sport Award): 1962 Gold Medal ( Royal Order of Sports Merit ): 2014 Globe Soccer Special Award : 2014 Globe Soccer Best Club of the Year : 2012, 2018 IFFHS The World's Club Team of the Year : 2018 ^ "Evolution 1929–10" . Liga de Fútbol Profesional . Archived from the original on 20 July 2011 . Retrieved 6 August 2010 . ^ "Palmarés en" (in Spanish). MARCA . Archived from the original on 21 May 2021 . Retrieved 22 June 2010 . ^ Carnicero, José; Torre, Raúl; Ferrer, Carles Lozano (28 August 2009). "Spain – List of Super Cup Finals" . Rec.Sport.Soccer Statistics Foundation (RSSSF). Archived from the original on 21 May 2016 . Retrieved 22 June 2010 . ^ "Spain – List of Super Cup Finals" . RSSSF . Archived from the original on 21 May 2016 . Retrieved 12 September 2021 . ^ "Atlético, campeón de la Europa League: Todas las reacciones de los protagonistas" . Marca (in Spanish). Unidad Editorial Información Deportiva, S.L.U. 16 May 2018. Archived from the original on 12 May 2021 . Retrieved 16 May 2018 . ^ "UEFA Cup Winners' Cup" . UEFA . Archived from the original on 1 May 2010 . Retrieved 22 June 2010 . ^ "UEFA Super Cup" . UEFA . Archived from the original on 20 August 2010 . Retrieved 22 June 2010 . ^ Cite error: The named reference FH was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ "Final Copa Presidente Federación Castellana" (in Spanish). ^ "El Atlético recibirá la Placa de Oro de la Real Orden del Mérito Deportivo" . MARCA.com (in Spanish). 12 August 2014. Archived from the original on 12 September 2021 . Retrieved 12 September 2021 . ^ "Atletico de Madrid GLOBE SOCCER SPECIAL AWARD 2014" . Dubai Globe Soccer Awards . Archived from the original on 4 January 2015 . Retrieved 15 December 2019 . ^ "Atletico de Madrid BEST CLUB OF THE YEAR 2012" . Dubai Globe Soccer Awards . Archived from the original on 28 January 2021 . Retrieved 15 December 2019 . ^ "Atletico Madrid BEST CLUB OF THE YEAR 2018" . Dubai Globe Soccer Awards . Archived from the original on 28 January 2021 . Retrieved 15 December 2019 . ^ "IFFHS AWARDS 2018 – CLUB WORLD RANKING 2018 : ATLETICO DE MADRID FOR THE FIRST TIME !" . IFFHS. Archived from the original on 14 November 2019 . Retrieved 22 January 2018 . Cite error: There are <ref group=lower-alpha> tags or {{efn}} templates on this page, but the references will not show without a {{reflist|group=lower-alpha}} template or {{notelist}} template (see the help page ).

______________________________________________________________________

### Awards & recognitions

Awards & recognitions [ edit ] Copa Stadium (Spain's oldest National Sport Award): 1962 Gold Medal ( Royal Order of Sports Merit ): 2014 Globe Soccer Special Award : 2014 Globe Soccer Best Club of the Year : 2012, 2018 IFFHS The World's Club Team of the Year : 2018 Cite error: There are <ref group=lower-alpha> tags or {{efn}} templates on this page, but the references will not show without a {{reflist|group=lower-alpha}} template or {{notelist}} template (see the help page ). ^ "El Atlético recibirá la Placa de Oro de la Real Orden del Mérito Deportivo" . MARCA.com (in Spanish). 12 August 2014. Archived from the original on 12 September 2021 . Retrieved 12 September 2021 . ^ "Atletico de Madrid GLOBE SOCCER SPECIAL AWARD 2014" . Dubai Globe Soccer Awards . Archived from the original on 4 January 2015 . Retrieved 15 December 2019 . ^ "Atletico de Madrid BEST CLUB OF THE YEAR 2012" . Dubai Globe Soccer Awards . Archived from the original on 28 January 2021 . Retrieved 15 December 2019 . ^ "Atletico Madrid BEST CLUB OF THE YEAR 2018" . Dubai Globe Soccer Awards . Archived from the original on 28 January 2021 . Retrieved 15 December 2019 . ^ "IFFHS AWARDS 2018 – CLUB WORLD RANKING 2018 : ATLETICO DE MADRID FOR THE FIRST TIME !" . IFFHS. Archived from the original on 14 November 2019 . Retrieved 22 January 2018 .

______________________________________________________________________

## International competition record

International competition record [ edit ] Main article: Atlético Madrid in European football Atlético has played at the European stage regularly since its 1958–59 European Cup debut, subsequently entering the UEFA Cup Winners' Cup ( 1961–62 ), the Inter-Cities Fairs Cup ( 1963–64 ), the UEFA Cup ( 1971–72 ) and the UEFA Super Cup ( 2009–10 ). Starting with the 1999–00 relegation Atlético did not qualify for European competition for seven years, but from the 2007–08 season , it has taken part in either the Champions League or the UEFA Europa League every year, enjoying success in both competition. Atlético Madrid's season-by-season record in international competition 1 Group stage. Highest-ranked eliminated team in case of qualification, lowest-ranked qualified team in case of elimination. Intercontinental Cup / FIFA Club World Cup Season Group stage Round of 16 Quarter-finals Semi-finals Final / 3rd pos. 1974–75 Independiente 2025 UEFA Super Cup Season Final 2010 Inter Milan 2012 Chelsea 2018 Real Madrid European Cup / UEFA Champions League Season Preliminary stages Round of 32 Round of 16 Quarter-finals Semi-finals Final 1958–59 Drumcondra CSKA Sofia Schalke 04 Real Madrid 1966–67 Malmö FF Vojvodina 1970–71 Austria Wien Cagliari Legia Warsaw Ajax 1973–74 Galatasaray Dinamo București Red Star Belgrade Celtic Bayern Munich 1977–78 Dinamo București Nantes Club Brugge 1996–97 Widzew Łódź 1 Ajax 2008–09 Schalke 04 Marseille 1 Porto 2009–10 Panathinaikos Porto 1 2013–14 Porto 1 Milan Barcelona Chelsea Real Madrid 2014–15 Olympiacos 1 Bayer Leverkusen Real Madrid 2015–16 Galatasaray 1 PSV Eindhoven Barcelona Bayern Munich Real Madrid 2016–17 Rostov 1 Bayer Leverkusen Leicester City Real Madrid 2017–18 Chelsea 1 2018–19 Club Brugge 1 Juventus 2019–20 Lokomotiv Moscow 1 Liverpool RB Leipzig 2020–21 Red Bull Salzburg 1 Chelsea 2021–22 Porto 1 Manchester United Manchester City 2022–23 Club Brugge 1 2023–24 Feyenoord 1 Inter Milan Borussia Dortmund 2024–25 Dinamo Zagreb 1 Real Madrid UEFA Cup Winners' Cup Season Preliminary stages Round of 32 Round of 16 Quarter-finals Semi-finals Final 1961–62 Sedan Leicester City Werder Bremen Carl Zeiss Jena Fiorentina 1962–63 Hibernians Botev 1. FC Nürnberg Tottenham Hotspur 1965–66 Dinamo Zagreb Universitatea Cluj Borussia Dortmund 1972–73 Bastia Spartak Moscow 1975–76 Basel Eintracht Frankfurt 1976–77 Rapid Wien Hajduk Split Levski Sofia Hamburger SV 1985–86 Celtic Bangor City Red Star Belgrade Uerdingen Dynamo Kyiv 1991–92 Fyllingen Manchester United Club Brugge 1992–93 Maribor Trabzonspor Olympiacos Parma Inter-Cities Fairs Cup / UEFA Cup / UEFA Europa League Season Preliminary stages Round of 32 Round of 16 Quarter-finals Semi-finals Final 1963–64 Porto Juventus 1964–65 Servette Shelbourne RFC Liège Bye Juventus 1967–68 Wiener SC Göztepe 1968–69 Waregem 1971–72 Panionios 1974–75 KB Derby County 1979–80 Dynamo Dresden 1981–82 Boavista 1983–84 Groningen 1984–85 Sion 1986–87 Werder Bremen Vitória de Guimarães 1988–89 Groningen 1989–90 Fiorentina 1990–91 Politehnica Timișoara 1993–94 Heart of Midlothian OFI 1997–98 Leicester City PAOK Dinamo Zagreb Aston Villa Lazio 1998–99 Obilic CSKA Sofia Real Sociedad Roma Parma 1999–2000 Ankaragücü Amica VfL Wolfsburg Lens 2007–08 Vojvodina Erciyesspor Copenhagen 1 Bolton Wanderers 2009–10 Galatasaray Sporting CP Valencia Liverpool Fulham 2010–11 Aris 1 2011–12 Strømsgodset Vitória de Guimarães Celtic 1 Lazio Beşiktaş Hannover 96 Valencia Athletic Bilbao 2012–13 Académica 1 Rubin Kazan 2017–18 Copenhagen Lokomotiv Moscow Sporting CP Arsenal Marseille UEFA Intertoto Cup Season Round of 32 Round of 16 Quarter-finals Semi-finals Finals 2004–05 Fastav Zlín OFK Beograd Villarreal 2007–08 Gloria Bistrița UEFA club coefficient ranking [ edit ] As of 1 July 2023 Rank Team Points 14 Borussia Dortmund 86.000 15 Atlético Madrid 85.000 16 RB Leipzig 84.000 ^ "UEFA rankings – Club coefficients" . UEFA. Archived from the original on 9 November 2021 . Retrieved 1 July 2023 .

______________________________________________________________________

### UEFA club coefficient ranking

UEFA club coefficient ranking [ edit ] As of 1 July 2023 Rank Team Points 14 Borussia Dortmund 86.000 15 Atlético Madrid 85.000 16 RB Leipzig 84.000 ^ "UEFA rankings – Club coefficients" . UEFA. Archived from the original on 9 November 2021 . Retrieved 1 July 2023 .

______________________________________________________________________

## Players

Players [ edit ] Main article: List of Atlético Madrid players For a list of all former and current Atlético Madrid players with a Wikipedia article, see Category:Atlético Madrid players . Spanish teams are limited to three players without EU citizenship. The squad list includes only the principal nationality of each player; several non-European players on the squad have dual citizenship with an EU country. Also, players from the ACP countries in Africa, the Caribbean, and the Pacific that are signatories to the Cotonou Agreement are not counted against non-EU quotas due to the Kolpak ruling . Current squad [ edit ] As of 3 February 2025 Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules ; some limited exceptions apply. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. No. Pos. Nation Player 1 GK ARG Juan Musso (on loan from Atalanta ) 2 DF URU José María Giménez ( 3rd captain ) 3 DF ESP César Azpilicueta 4 MF ENG Conor Gallagher 5 MF ARG Rodrigo De Paul 6 MF ESP Koke ( captain ) 7 FW FRA Antoine Griezmann 8 MF ESP Pablo Barrios 9 FW NOR Alexander Sørloth 10 FW ARG Ángel Correa 11 MF FRA Thomas Lemar 12 MF BRA Samuel Lino No. Pos. Nation Player 13 GK SVN Jan Oblak ( vice-captain ) 14 MF ESP Marcos Llorente 15 DF FRA Clément Lenglet (on loan from Barcelona ) 16 DF ARG Nahuel Molina 17 MF ESP Rodrigo Riquelme 19 FW ARG Julián Alvarez 20 DF BEL Axel Witsel 21 DF ESP Javi Galán 22 FW ARG Giuliano Simeone 23 DF MOZ Reinildo Mandava 24 DF ESP Robin Le Normand Reserve team [ edit ] Main article: Atlético Madrid B Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules ; some limited exceptions apply. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. No. Pos. Nation Player 27 DF GRE Ilias Kostis 28 MF ESP Aitor Gismera 29 MF ESP Javi Serrano 31 GK ESP Antonio Gomis 32 FW ESP Adrián Niño No. Pos. Nation Player 33 GK ESP Alejandro Iturbe 40 MF ESP Rayane Belaid 41 DF ESP Carlos Giménez 43 DF ARG Gerónimo Spina 47 FW ESP Omar Janneh Out on loan [ edit ] Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules ; some limited exceptions apply. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. No. Pos. Nation Player — GK ROU Horațiu Moldovan (at Sassuolo until 30 June 2025) — MF ESP Saúl (at Sevilla until 30 June 2025) No. Pos. Nation Player — FW ESP Carlos Martín (at Alavés until 30 June 2025) — FW MAR Salim El Jebari (at Cartagena until 30 June 2025) ^ "Primer Equipo" . Atlético de Madrid. Archived from the original on 2 September 2022 . Retrieved 1 September 2022 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Current squad

Current squad [ edit ] As of 3 February 2025 Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules ; some limited exceptions apply. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. No. Pos. Nation Player 1 GK ARG Juan Musso (on loan from Atalanta ) 2 DF URU José María Giménez ( 3rd captain ) 3 DF ESP César Azpilicueta 4 MF ENG Conor Gallagher 5 MF ARG Rodrigo De Paul 6 MF ESP Koke ( captain ) 7 FW FRA Antoine Griezmann 8 MF ESP Pablo Barrios 9 FW NOR Alexander Sørloth 10 FW ARG Ángel Correa 11 MF FRA Thomas Lemar 12 MF BRA Samuel Lino No. Pos. Nation Player 13 GK SVN Jan Oblak ( vice-captain ) 14 MF ESP Marcos Llorente 15 DF FRA Clément Lenglet (on loan from Barcelona ) 16 DF ARG Nahuel Molina 17 MF ESP Rodrigo Riquelme 19 FW ARG Julián Alvarez 20 DF BEL Axel Witsel 21 DF ESP Javi Galán 22 FW ARG Giuliano Simeone 23 DF MOZ Reinildo Mandava 24 DF ESP Robin Le Normand ^ "Primer Equipo" . Atlético de Madrid. Archived from the original on 2 September 2022 . Retrieved 1 September 2022 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Reserve team

Reserve team [ edit ] Main article: Atlético Madrid B Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules ; some limited exceptions apply. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. No. Pos. Nation Player 27 DF GRE Ilias Kostis 28 MF ESP Aitor Gismera 29 MF ESP Javi Serrano 31 GK ESP Antonio Gomis 32 FW ESP Adrián Niño No. Pos. Nation Player 33 GK ESP Alejandro Iturbe 40 MF ESP Rayane Belaid 41 DF ESP Carlos Giménez 43 DF ARG Gerónimo Spina 47 FW ESP Omar Janneh

______________________________________________________________________

### Out on loan

Out on loan [ edit ] Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules ; some limited exceptions apply. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. No. Pos. Nation Player — GK ROU Horațiu Moldovan (at Sassuolo until 30 June 2025) — MF ESP Saúl (at Sevilla until 30 June 2025) No. Pos. Nation Player — FW ESP Carlos Martín (at Alavés until 30 June 2025) — FW MAR Salim El Jebari (at Cartagena until 30 June 2025)

______________________________________________________________________

## Staff

Staff [ edit ] Technical staff [ edit ] Simeone, manager since 23 December 2011 Position Staff Head coach Diego Simeone Assistant coaches Nelson Vivas Luis Tevenet Gustavo López Goalkeeping coach Pablo Vercellone Fitness coach Luis Piñedo Physiotherapists Iván Ortega Jesús Vázquez Esteban Arévalo David Loras Felipe Iglesias Arroyo Rehabilitation physios Óscar Pitillas Alfredo Jarodich Technical assistant Team Carlos Menéndez Daniel Castro Team delegate Pedro Pablo Matesanz Head of medical department José María Villalón Club doctor Gorka de Abajo Doctor Óscar Luis Celada Technical team Cristian Bautista Dimcho Lyubomirov Pilichev Fernando Sánchez Ramírez Mario Serrano Source: Atlético Madrid See also: List of Atlético Madrid managers

______________________________________________________________________

### Technical staff

Technical staff [ edit ] Simeone, manager since 23 December 2011 Position Staff Head coach Diego Simeone Assistant coaches Nelson Vivas Luis Tevenet Gustavo López Goalkeeping coach Pablo Vercellone Fitness coach Luis Piñedo Physiotherapists Iván Ortega Jesús Vázquez Esteban Arévalo David Loras Felipe Iglesias Arroyo Rehabilitation physios Óscar Pitillas Alfredo Jarodich Technical assistant Team Carlos Menéndez Daniel Castro Team delegate Pedro Pablo Matesanz Head of medical department José María Villalón Club doctor Gorka de Abajo Doctor Óscar Luis Celada Technical team Cristian Bautista Dimcho Lyubomirov Pilichev Fernando Sánchez Ramírez Mario Serrano Source: Atlético Madrid See also: List of Atlético Madrid managers

______________________________________________________________________

## Ownership and overseas properties

Ownership and overseas properties [ edit ] Enrique Cerezo , current president of Atlético Since 2002, Enrique Cerezo Torres was the club president, whereas Miguel Ángel Gil Marín (son of former club president Jesús Gil ) is chief executive officer. After a 2021 capital increase , Gil Marín, Cerezo and incoming investor Ares Management Corporation hold a 66.98% of the shares by means of 'Atlético HoldCo'. Israeli businessman and billionaire Idan Ofer , owns 33% of Atlético Madrid's stakes. Atlético co-owns Liga MX club Atlético San Luis , and the Canadian Premier League side Atlético Ottawa . The club also co-owned the Indian Super League (ISL) franchise in Kolkata , formerly named Atlético de Kolkata , which won the competition twice, but in 2017 ended its partnership with the club as Sanjiv Goenka bought its shares. In October 2018, Atletico De Madrid announced their first academy in Pakistan which was based in Lahore , which was the first European football academy in Pakistan. In April 2019, they launched "Football School Program" in Lahore. In October 2019, Atletico De Madrid conducted talents in Lahore. In February 2020, Pakistan Football Federation announced the 2020–21 Football Federation League in which Atletico Madrid Lahore was included in Group C and was made a professional Pakistani football club. It made its debut against Hazara Coal and won by 2–0. [ citation needed ] ^ Delgado, Eugenio G. (2 March 2010). "Enrique Cerezo: "El Atlético de Madrid tendrá este año un final feliz " " . 20minutos.es . Archived from the original on 7 September 2022 . Retrieved 7 September 2022 . ^ "Gil Marín no quiso vender sus acciones del Atlético" . 10 May 2011. Archived from the original on 22 August 2011 . Retrieved 13 January 2013 . ^ Martínez, Jorge (25 June 2021). "El Atleti amplía su capital en 181,8 millones: llega un inversor y Cerezo y Gil Marín crean una sociedad" . El Español . Archived from the original on 7 September 2022 . Retrieved 7 September 2022 . ^ Cite error: The named reference Haaretz:Israeli Billionaire Idan Ofer Makes Progress in Bid to Buy Stake in Atletico Madrid Soccer Club was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ Cite error: The named reference Buyer was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ Cite error: The named reference CTECH: Israeli Business Magnate Buys a 15% Stake in Atlético Madrid was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ Thapa, Chirinjibi (20 March 2020). "It's no more just about Real or Barca breaking records: La Liga India head" . Business Standard India . Archived from the original on 3 April 2020 . Retrieved 26 March 2020 . ^ "Atletico de Madrid are ditching their ISL franchise partnership with Atletico de Kolkata" . TFG team. 11 July 2017. Archived from the original on 14 August 2017 . Retrieved 11 July 2017 . ^ "Atlético de Madrid set to conduct its first talent hunt trails in Lahore" . The Nation . 11 October 2019. Archived from the original on 9 December 2019 . Retrieved 17 March 2020 .

______________________________________________________________________

## Colours and badge

Colours and badge [ edit ] Atlético's home kit is red and white vertical striped shirts, blue shorts, and blue and red socks. This combination has been used since 1910. The club's badge which was firstly introduced in 1917 featuring the Coat of arms of Madrid , then incorporated into the club's jersey from 1947, was remodeled in 2016 through a controversial and unnecessary decision by the ownership, yet a vote on 30 June 2023 revealed that 88.68% of club members wanted to reinstate the historical badge, which would be represented on July 1, 2024. ^ "In constant evolution since 1917" . Atlético Madrid. 30 June 2023. Archived from the original on 1 July 2023 . Retrieved 1 July 2023 . ^ "Atletico Madrid Will Return To Former Club Crest In 2024 After 89% Vote In Favor Of Change" . Forbes . 30 June 2023. Archived from the original on 1 July 2023 . Retrieved 1 July 2023 .

______________________________________________________________________

## Nicknames

Nicknames [ edit ] Throughout their history the club has been known by a number of nicknames, including Los Colchoneros ("The Mattress Makers"), due to their first team stripes being the same colours as traditional mattresses . During the 1970s, they became known as Los Indios , which some attribute to the club's signing several South American players after the restrictions on signing foreign players were lifted. However, there are a number of alternative theories which claim they were named so because their stadium was "camped" on the river bank, or because Los Indios (The Indians) were the traditional enemy of Los Blancos (The Whites), which is the nickname of the club's city rivals , Real Madrid. Felipe VI , the king of Spain, has been the honorary president of the club since 2003. ^ Cite error: The named reference Eurorivals was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ Mike Roberts (7 May 2021). "The lowdown on Atlético Madrid" . FC Barcelona . Retrieved 21 May 2024 .

______________________________________________________________________

## Stadium and facility

Stadium and facility [ edit ] Riyadh Air Metropolitano home of Atlético The club plays home fixtures in the Riyadh Air Metropolitano , which was expanded from a 20,000 seat capacity (when it was known as La Peineta) to 68,000 after it was used for Madrid's failed bid to host the 2016 Summer Olympic .
Following the renovation of the stadium, the refurbished venue hosted its first competitive match pitting Atlético against Málaga , in which Antoine Griezmann scored the club's first goal at the stadium. Training ground [ edit ] The club's training ground is the Ciudad Deportiva Atlético de Madrid in Majadahonda , around 20 km west of Madrid. The facility maintains grass and artificial pitches as well as a gym. Both the senior and youth squads train at the club-owned facilities. Atlético also runs a sports academy at the Ciudad Deportiva del Nuevo Cerro del Espino in Majadahonda. The club also runs an academy in Bucharest , Romania, its first in Europe. ^ "Griezmann gives Atletico win in first match at new home" . USA TODAY . Archived from the original on 11 January 2022 . Retrieved 11 January 2022 . ^ "Training Complex" . Club Atlético de Madrid . 2007. Archived from the original on 8 July 2011 . Retrieved 20 November 2010 . ^ Chirileasa, Andrei (20 June 2014). "Spanish club Atletico Madrid to open football academy in Bucharest, its first in Europe" . Romania-Insider.com. Archived from the original on 28 November 2018 . Retrieved 16 May 2017 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Training ground

Training ground [ edit ] The club's training ground is the Ciudad Deportiva Atlético de Madrid in Majadahonda , around 20 km west of Madrid. The facility maintains grass and artificial pitches as well as a gym. Both the senior and youth squads train at the club-owned facilities. Atlético also runs a sports academy at the Ciudad Deportiva del Nuevo Cerro del Espino in Majadahonda. The club also runs an academy in Bucharest , Romania, its first in Europe. ^ "Training Complex" . Club Atlético de Madrid . 2007. Archived from the original on 8 July 2011 . Retrieved 20 November 2010 . ^ Chirileasa, Andrei (20 June 2014). "Spanish club Atletico Madrid to open football academy in Bucharest, its first in Europe" . Romania-Insider.com. Archived from the original on 28 November 2018 . Retrieved 16 May 2017 .

______________________________________________________________________

## Kit suppliers and shirt sponsors

Kit suppliers and shirt sponsors [ edit ] Atlético players with kits stating " Azerbaijan Land of Fire " Atlético de Madrid's bus, decorated with red and white colours Wikimedia Commons has media related to Atlético Madrid kits . Atlético began playing in blue and white, mirroring then-parent club Athletic Bilbao , but both changed to red-and-white stripes by 1911 which became their traditional colours. The change took hold because red and white striped tops were the cheap to make, as the same combination was used to make bed mattresses, and the unused cloth was easily converted into football shirts. The kit has been made by Nike since 2001, as the company wants to provide competition with rival brand Adidas , who have a long-term deal with Real Madrid . The club's main shirt sponsorship by the government of Azerbaijan between 2012 and 2014, featuring the slogan 'Land of Fire', was condemned by Reporters Without Borders , who satirized it in a campaign visual in which the shirt's vertical stripes become prison bars with the logo "Azerbaijan, Land of Repression". Atlético Madrid admitted its sponsorship deal had a political dimension, saying the intention was to "promote the image of Azerbaijan". In August 2014, the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights wrote to Atlético, calling on it to end the sponsorship by and promotion of Azerbaijan because of the country's human rights record, calling it "one of the most repressive countries in the world". In its 2003–04 season, the club was sponsored by Columbia Pictures , who would change the shirt sponsor's logo, and occasionally the shirt itself, as they did with the away shirt when Spider-Man 2 was in cinemas. This kit sponsorship deal featured 16 separate film titles – an unprecedented number, which has not since been replicated as of 2022. Films included Columbia Picture's 2004 film White Chicks , which received mixed commentary. Because shirts would have to be introduced and removed from shops at a very fast pace to keep up with film releases, Nike decided to not include a sponsor's logo on replica shirts made from 2003 to 2005. Period Kit manufacturer Shirt Sponsors 1950-80 Deportes Cóndor None 1980–86 Meyba 1986–89 Puma 1989–90 Mita 1990–93 Marbella * 1993–94 Antena 3 1994–96 Marbella * 1996–97 Bandai / Tamagotchi 1997–98 Marbella * 1998–99 Reebok 1999–2000 None 2000–01 Idea 2001–03 Nike 2003–05 Columbia Pictures \*\* 2005–11 KIA 03–05 2012 Rixos Hotels (Liga only, except v. R. Madrid) 05–12 2012 Huawei 2012–14 Azerbaijan Land of Fire 2014–15 Baku 2015 2015–22 Plus500 2018– Hyundai (co-sponsor) 2019– Ria Money Transfer (co-sponsor) 2022–2023 WhaleFin 2023– Riyadh Air (\*\*) – 2003–05 Columbia Pictures (Movies advertised on the shirt included Bewitched , Hollywood Homicide , S.W.A.T. , Big Fish , Hellboy , Spanglish , Resident Evil 2: Apocalypse , Hitch , xXx and Spider-Man 2 ). ^ "Do you know who Atlético Madrid's real sponsor is? – Reporters without borders" . 22 May 2014. Archived from the original on 4 March 2016 . Retrieved 25 August 2014 . ^ "Atletico Madrid: Azerbaijan logo edited out of Iran paper (altered images)" . BBC News . 9 May 2014. Archived from the original on 11 May 2014 . Retrieved 21 July 2018 . ^ "Dear Mr. President" (PDF) . Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights. Archived (PDF) from the original on 18 February 2015 . Retrieved 23 August 2021 . ^ "Football sponsors and their marketing strategy" . Footballspeak.com. Archived from the original on 16 January 2013 . Retrieved 8 March 2013 . ^ "Advertising Effectiveness Case Study (Atlético Madrid x Columbia Pictures)" . CriterionGlobal.com. 20 September 2022. Archived from the original on 21 September 2022 . Retrieved 21 September 2022 . ^ "Deportes Condor – Deportes Condor Madrid – Deportes Condor" (in Spanish). Archived from the original on 20 January 2023 . Retrieved 20 January 2023 . ^ Bassam, Tom (13 June 2018). "Atlético Madrid park up with Hyundai" . SportsPro. Archived from the original on 6 February 2023 . Retrieved 6 February 2023 . ^ "Amber Group, presentado como nuevo patrocinador principal del Atlético de Madrid" . Club Atlético de Madrid. 17 July 2022. Archived from the original on 17 July 2022 . Retrieved 17 July 2022 . ^ "Riyadh Air, Atlético de Madrid's new main sponsor" . Club Atlético de Madrid. 10 August 2023. Archived from the original on 10 August 2023 . Retrieved 10 August 2023 .

______________________________________________________________________

## Supporters

Supporters [ edit ] Frente Atlético is an ultra group of Club Atlético de Madrid founded with that name in 1982. They had around 2,500 members in 2014, one of the largest ultra groups in Spanish football. That same year, Atlético Madrid expelled Frente Atlético and prohibited the display of its symbols in the stadium. [ citation needed ] FA are friends with Ruch Chorzow, Roma, Fortuna Düsseldorf, Catanzaro and Sporting Gijón. [ citation needed ] They also have a great rivalry with the ultras of Real Madrid, Sevilla, Espanyol, Valencia, Rayo Vallecano, Deportivo, Celta, Real Sociedad, Athletic, Osasuna, Alavés, Zaragoza, Malaga, Valladolid, Oviedo, Porto, Sporting Lisbon, Benfica, Lazio and Marseille. They also have bad relations and constant incidents with a former section of the group called Suburbios Firm. [ citation needed ] Celebrities Joaquín Sabina , Belén Esteban , Birgitte V. Gade, Leiva , Álvaro Bautista , Omar Hittini, Ana Rosa Quintana , Javier Bardem , Sara Carbonero , Pablo Iglesias Turrión , El Langui, Pedro Sánchez , Luis de Guindos , Rosendo Mercado , José Tomás, Cayetano Martínez de Irujo, David Muñoz , Will Smith , Harrison Ford , Halle Berry , Tom Cruise , Matt Damon , Vin Diesel , Charlize Theron and Karl-Anthony Towns are all fans of the club. Atlético is also supported by King Felipe VI , who became Honorary President of the club in 2003. Atlético Madrid became one of the most popular sports clubs in the world with a large international fanbase. As of 06 Oct 2024, Atlético ranked 16th place in the top 20 most popular sports clubs on Instagram in the world: Rank Sports club Sport Country Followers 1 Real Madrid Football Spain 173 million 2 Barcelona Football Spain 137 million 3 Manchester United Football United Kingdom 64.3 million 4 Paris Saint-Germain Football France 62.7 million 5 Juventus Football Italy 60.1 million 6 Manchester City Football United Kingdom 56 million 7 Liverpool Football United Kingdom 46.6 million 8 Bayern Munich Football Germany 42.8 million 9 Chelsea Football United Kingdom 42.5 million 10 Golden State Warriors Basketball United States 32.5 million 11 Arsenal Football United Kingdom 30.2 million 12 Al Nassr Football Saudi Arabia 27.2 million 13 Los Angeles Lakers Basketball United States 25.2 million 14 Flamengo Football Brazil 21.7 million 15 Borussia Dortmund Football Germany 20.7 million 16 Atlético Madrid Football Spain 17.8 million 17 AC Milan Football Italy 17.4 million 18 Inter Miami Football United States 17.2 million 19 Tottenham Hotspur Football United Kingdom 17.1 million 20 Galatasaray Football Turkey 16.7 million ^ "Usain Bolt, Will Smith, Sara Cabonero and other famous fans of Athletico & Real Madrid" . Goal.com . 24 May 2016. Archived from the original on 28 July 2018 . Retrieved 19 May 2018 . ^ "Champions League Final: 10 celebrities who will be supporting Atletico Madrid on Saturday" . Marca . 26 May 2016. Archived from the original on 20 May 2018 . Retrieved 19 May 2018 . ^ EP (2 April 2013). "El Príncipe Felipe, Presidente de Honor del Centenario" . AS (in Spanish). Archived from the original on 19 May 2018 . Retrieved 18 May 2018 . ^ Sprung, Shlomo (23 November 2023). "The Most-followed Sports Teams On Instagram" . Boardroom . Archived from the original on 1 February 2024 . Retrieved 2 April 2024 .

______________________________________________________________________

## Notable players

Notable players [ edit ] For a list of former and current Atlético Madrid players with a Wikipedia article, see List of Atlético Madrid players . Koke has worn the Atlético shirt in more than 680 matches since 2009, while Antoine Griezmann has the club's record for most goals with 197. João Félix is the club's most expensive signing at €126 million, and at €120 million Antoine Griezmann is the club's biggest sale. As of 25 May 2025 . Most appearances Rank Player Apps League apps Period Nationality 1 Koke 681 485 2009–present Spain 2 Adelardo Rodríguez 553 401 1959–1976 Spain 3 Jan Oblak 492 369 2014–present Slovenia 4 Tomás Reñones 483 367 1984–1996 Spain 5 Enrique Collar 470 371 1952–1969 Spain 6 Ángel Correa 466 335 2015–present Argentina 7 Carlos Aguilera 456 365 1988–1993 1996–2005 Spain 8 Antoine Griezmann 442 315 2014–2019 2021–present France 9 Saúl 427 295 2012–2013 2014–2021 2022–2024 Spain 10 Isacio Calleja 425 300 1958–1972 Spain Most goals Rank Player Goals League goals Period Nationality 1 Antoine Griezmann 197 136 2014–2019 2021–present France 2 Luis Aragonés 173 123 1964–1974 Spain 3 Adrián Escudero 169 150 1945–1958 Spain 4 Paco Campos 158 144 1940–1948 Spain 5 José Eulogio Gárate 136 109 1966–1977 Spain 6 Fernando Torres 129 109 2001–2007 2015–2018 Spain 7 Joaquín Peiró 125 95 1954–1962 Spain 8 Adelardo Rodríguez 113 73 1959–1976 Spain 9 Enrique Collar 105 71 1952–1969 Spain 10 José Juncosa 103 80 1944–1955 Spain ^ Most appearances for Atlético de Madrid . Archived 7 September 2021 at the Wayback Machine . bdfutbol.com . ^ "Torres, Luis Aragonés y los máximos goleadores de la historia del Atlético" . Goal.com (in Spanish). 15 April 2018. Archived from the original on 22 May 2018 . Retrieved 21 May 2018 .

______________________________________________________________________

## See also

See also [ edit ] Portals : Association football Spain Atlético Madrid B Atlético Madrid (youth) Atlético Madrid Femenino Atlético Ottawa Atlético San Luis Atlético San Luis Premier Atlético San Luis (women) Jamshedpur FC Tata Football Academy List of world champion football clubs

______________________________________________________________________

## Notes

Notes [ edit ]

______________________________________________________________________

## References

References [ edit ]

______________________________________________________________________

## External links

External links [ edit ] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Atlético de Madrid . Wikinews has news related to: Atlético Madrid Official website (in English and Spanish) Atlético de Madrid at La Liga (in English and Spanish) Atlético de Madrid at UEFA (in English and Spanish) v t e Club Atlético de Madrid S.A.D. History Players Managers Seasons: men / women Europe Honours Current season Grounds Tiro del Pichón Campo de O'Donnell (Atlético Madrid) Campo de Fútbol de Vallecas Estadio Metropolitano de Madrid Vicente Calderón Stadium Wanda Metropolitano Training ground Majadahonda ( Cerro del Espino ) Alcalá de Henares Rivalry Madrid derby Other teams Atlético Madrid Femenino (women) Atlético Madrid B CU Collado Villalba Atlético Madrid C (defunct) Atlético Madrid Juvenil Affiliated clubs and franchises Atlético San Luis ( Liga MX ) Atlético Ottawa ( Canadian Premier League ) CRC Madrid (rugby union, partnership ended) Defunct Atlético Madrid BM Atlético Madrid Rugby Atlético Madrid Voleibol BM Neptuno (handball) CB Collado Villalba (basketball) Superleague Formula team v t e Atlético Madrid – current squad 1 Musso 2 Giménez 3 Azpilicueta 4 Gallagher 5 De Paul 6 Koke ( c ) 7 Griezmann 8 Barrios 9 Sørloth 10 Correa 11 Lemar 12 Samuel Lino 13 Oblak 14 Llorente 15 Lenglet 16 Molina 17 Riquelme 19 Alvarez 20 Witsel 21 Galán 22 G. Simeone 23 Reinildo 24 Le Normand Coach: D. Simeone v t e Atlético Madrid – managers Ansoleaga ( 1921 –22) Iturbe ( 1922 –23) Hayes ( 1923 –24) Olalquiaga ( 1924 –25) Pentland ( 1925 –26) de Miguel ( 1926 –27) Ruete ( 1927 ) Pentland ( 1927 –29) Romo ( 1929 –30) Jeny ( 1930 –32) Barroso ( 1932 ) Harris ( 1932 –33) Anatol ( 1933 ) Arteaga ( 1933 ) Pentland ( 1933 –35) Marculeta c ( 1935 ) Samitier ( 1935 –36) Navarro ( 1938 ) Quirante ( 1939 ) Zamora ( 1939 –40) Lafuente ( 1940 ) Zamora ( 1940 –46) Vidal ( 1946 –47) Taioli ( 1948 –49) Herrera ( 1949 –53) Colón ( 1953 ) Díaz ( 1953 –54) Quincoces ( 1954 –55) Barrios ( 1955 –57) Daučík ( 1957 –59) Villalonga ( 1959 –61) Tinte ( 1961 –63) Escudero ( 1963 ) Barinaga ( 1963 –64) Bumbel ( 1964 –65) Balmanya ( 1965 –66) Glória ( 1966 –68) González Pérez ( 1968 –69) Domingo ( 1969 –72) Merkel ( 1972 –73) Lorenzo ( 1973 –74) Aragonés ( 1974 –78) Núñez ( 1978 ) Aragonés ( 1978 ) Szusza ( 1978 –79) Aragonés ( 1979 –80) Jayo ( 1980 ) Domingo ( 1980 ) García Traid ( 1980 –81) Carriega ( 1981 ) García Traid ( 1981 –82) Aragonés ( 1982 –86) Miera ( 1986 ) Jayo ( 1986 –87) Aragonés ( 1987 ) Menotti ( 1987 –88) Ufarte ( 1988 ) Briones ( 1988 ) Maguregui ( 1988 ) Briones ( 1988 ) Atkinson ( 1988 –89) Addison ( 1989 ) Briones ( 1989 ) Clemente ( 1989 –90) Briones ( 1990 ) Peiró ( 1990 ) Ovejero c ( 1990 ) Ivić ( 1990 –91) Aragonés ( 1991 –93) Ovejero c ( 1992 ) Pastoriza ( 1992 –93) Heredia ( 1993 ) J. Pereira ( 1993 ) Heredia ( 1993 ) Cruz ( 1993 ) Romero ( 1994 ) Ovejero ( 1994 ) D'Alessandro ( 1994 ) Maturana ( 1994 ) D'Alessandro ( 1994 –95) Basile ( 1995 ) Aguiar c ( 1995 ) Antić ( 1995 –98) Sacchi ( 1998 –99) Aguiar c ( 1999 ) Antić ( 1999 ) Ranieri ( 1999 –00) Antić ( 2000 ) Zambrano ( 2000 ) Alonso ( 2000 –01) Cantarero ( 2001 ) Aragonés ( 2001 –03) Manzano ( 2003 –04) Ferrando ( 2004 –05) Bianchi ( 2005 ) Murcia ( 2006 ) Aguirre ( 2006 –09) Resino ( 2009 ) Denia c ( 2009 ) Flores ( 2009 –11) Manzano ( 2011 ) Simeone ( 2011 –) (c) = caretaker manager v t e La Liga original clubs, 1929 Arenas Athletic Bilbao Athletic Madrid Barcelona Español Europa Racing Santander Real Madrid Real Sociedad Real Unión Atlético Madrid honours v t e UEFA Cup Winners' Cup winners 1960s 1960–61 : Fiorentina 1961–62 : Atlético Madrid 1962–63 : Tottenham Hotspur 1963–64 : Sporting CP 1964–65 : West Ham United 1965–66 : Borussia Dortmund 1966–67 : Bayern Munich 1967–68 : AC Milan 1968–69 : Slovan Bratislava 1969–70 : Manchester City 1970s 1970–71 : Chelsea 1971–72 : Rangers 1972–73 : AC Milan 1973–74 : 1. FC Magdeburg 1974–75 : Dynamo Kyiv 1975–76 : Anderlecht 1976–77 : Hamburger SV 1977–78 : Anderlecht 1978–79 : Barcelona 1979–80 : Valencia 1980s 1980–81 : Dinamo Tbilisi 1981–82 : Barcelona 1982–83 : Aberdeen 1983–84 : Juventus 1984–85 : Everton 1985–86 : Dynamo Kyiv 1986–87 : Ajax 1987–88 : Mechelen 1988–89 : Barcelona 1989–90 : Sampdoria 1990s 1990–91 : Manchester United 1991–92 : Werder Bremen 1992–93 : Parma 1993–94 : Arsenal 1994–95 : Zaragoza 1995–96 : Paris Saint-Germain 1996–97 : Barcelona 1997–98 : Chelsea 1998–99 : Lazio v t e UEFA Cup and UEFA Europa League winners UEFA Cup era, 1971–2009 1970s 1971–72 : Tottenham Hotspur 1972–73 : Liverpool 1973–74 : Feyenoord 1974–75 : Borussia Mönchengladbach 1975–76 : Liverpool 1976–77 : Juventus 1977–78 : PSV Eindhoven 1978–79 : Borussia Mönchengladbach 1979–80 : Eintracht Frankfurt 1980s 1980–81 : Ipswich Town 1981–82 : IFK Göteborg 1982–83 : Anderlecht 1983–84 : Tottenham Hotspur 1984–85 : Real Madrid 1985–86 : Real Madrid 1986–87 : IFK Göteborg 1987–88 : Bayer Leverkusen 1988–89 : Napoli 1989–90 : Juventus 1990s 1990–91 : Internazionale 1991–92 : Ajax 1992–93 : Juventus 1993–94 : Internazionale 1994–95 : Parma 1995–96 : Bayern Munich 1996–97 : Schalke 04 1997–98 : Internazionale 1998–99 : Parma 1999–2000 : Galatasaray 2000s 2000–01 : Liverpool 2001–02 : Feyenoord 2002–03 : Porto 2003–04 : Valencia 2004–05 : CSKA Moscow 2005–06 : Sevilla 2006–07 : Sevilla 2007–08 : Zenit Saint Petersburg 2008–09 : Shakhtar Donetsk UEFA Europa League era, 2009–present 2000s 2009–10 : Atlético Madrid 2010s 2010–11 : Porto 2011–12 : Atlético Madrid 2012–13 : Chelsea 2013–14 : Sevilla 2014–15 : Sevilla 2015–16 : Sevilla 2016–17 : Manchester United 2017–18 : Atlético Madrid 2018–19 : Chelsea 2019–20 : Sevilla 2020s 2020–21 : Villarreal 2021–22 : Eintracht Frankfurt 2022–23 : Sevilla 2023–24 : Atalanta 2024–25 : Tottenham Hotspur Finals Winning managers v t e UEFA Super Cup winners UCL vs. CWC 1973 : Ajax 1975 : Dynamo Kyiv 1976 : Anderlecht 1977 : Liverpool 1978 : Anderlecht 1979 : Nottingham Forest 1980 : Valencia 1982 : Aston Villa 1983 : Aberdeen 1984 : Juventus 1986 : Steaua București 1987 : Porto 1988 : Mechelen 1989 : Milan 1990 : Milan 1991 : Manchester United 1992 : Barcelona 1993 : Parma 1994 : Milan 1995 : Ajax 1996 : Juventus 1997 : Barcelona 1998 : Chelsea 1999 : Lazio UCL vs. UEL 2000 : Galatasaray 2001 : Liverpool 2002 : Real Madrid 2003 : Milan 2004 : Valencia 2005 : Liverpool 2006 : Sevilla 2007 : Milan 2008 : Zenit St. Petersburg 2009 : Barcelona 2010 : Atlético Madrid 2011 : Barcelona 2012 : Atlético Madrid 2013 : Bayern Munich 2014 : Real Madrid 2015 : Barcelona 2016 : Real Madrid 2017 : Real Madrid 2018 : Atlético Madrid 2019 : Liverpool 2020 : Bayern Munich 2021 : Chelsea 2022 : Real Madrid 2023 : Manchester City 2024 : Real Madrid Winning managers v t e Intercontinental Cup winners 1960s 1960 : Real Madrid 1961 : Peñarol 1962 : Santos 1963 : Santos 1964 : Inter Milan 1965 : Inter Milan 1966 : Peñarol 1967 : Racing 1968 : Estudiantes de La Plata 1969 : AC Milan 1970s 1970 : Feyenoord 1971 : Nacional 1972 : Ajax 1973 : Independiente 1974 : Atlético Madrid 1976 : Bayern Munich 1977 : Boca Juniors 1979 : Olimpia 1980s 1980 : Nacional 1981 : Flamengo 1982 : Peñarol 1983 : Grêmio 1984 : Independiente 1985 : Juventus 1986 : River Plate 1987 : Porto 1988 : Nacional 1989 : AC Milan 1990s 1990 : AC Milan 1991 : Red Star Belgrade 1992 : São Paulo 1993 : São Paulo 1994 : Vélez Sársfield 1995 : Ajax 1996 : Juventus 1997 : Borussia Dortmund 1998 : Real Madrid 1999 : Manchester United 2000s 2000 : Boca Juniors 2001 : Bayern Munich 2002 : Real Madrid 2003 : Boca Juniors 2004 : Porto v t e La Liga 2024–25 clubs Alavés Athletic Bilbao Atlético Madrid Barcelona Betis Celta Vigo Espanyol Getafe Girona Las Palmas Leganés Mallorca Osasuna Rayo Vallecano Real Madrid Real Sociedad Sevilla Valencia Valladolid Villarreal Former clubs Active Albacete Alcoyano Almería Arenas Getxo Cádiz Castellón Compostela Córdoba Cultural Leonesa Deportivo La Coruña Eibar Elche Europa Gimnàstic Granada Hércules Huesca Jaén Levante Málaga Murcia Numancia Oviedo Pontevedra Racing Santander Real Unión Recreativo Huelva Sabadell Sporting Gijón Tenerife Xerez Zaragoza Defunct AD Almería Atlético Tetuán Burgos Condal Extremadura Lleida CD Logroñés CD Málaga CP Mérida Real Burgos Salamanca Competition Clubs Seasons & winners Relegation play-offs Players foreign Managers Winners Stadia Broadcasters Referees Statistics and awards Records Hat-tricks All-time table La Liga Awards List of La Liga top scorers Marca Awards Di Stéfano: Best Player Pichichi: Top Scorer Zarra: Spanish Top Scorer Zamora: Best Goalkeeper Miguel Muñoz: Best Manager Guruceta: Best referee Don Balón Award Player of the Month Manager of the Month Goal of the Month Save of the Month Finances Richest clubs: Deloitte list Forbes' list Team owners Associated competitions Supercopa de España Copa del Rey UEFA Champions League UEFA Europa League UEFA Conference League v t e Sports teams based in the Community of Madrid Football ( Overview ) Men 1ª Atlético Madrid Getafe Leganés Real Madrid Rayo Vallecano 1ª Federación Alcorcón Atlético Madrid B Fuenlabrada Rayo Mahadahonda Real Madrid Castilla Women 1ª Atlético Madrid Madrid CFF Rayo Vallecano Real Madrid 2ª Atlético Madrid B Madrid B Pozuelo Futsal Men LNFS 1ª Inter Movistar Carnicer Torrejón Basketball Men ACB Estudiantes Fuenlabrada Real Madrid LEB Oro Real Canoe Women LFB CB Estudiantes LF2 Alcobendas CB Las Rozas Real Canoe Handball Men ASOBAL Atlético Madrid DPB BM Alcobendas Women DHF BM Alcobendas DHP BM Móstoles Ice hockey Men LNHH SAD Majadahonda Field hockey Men DH Club de Campo Rugby Men DH Alcobendas Complutense DHB Real Canoe Pozuelo Water polo Men DH Real Canoe Venues Santiago Bernabéu Stadium Metropolitano Stadium Campo de Fútbol de Vallecas Alfredo Di Stéfano Stadium Polideportivo Moratalaz Palacio de Deportes Palacio Vistalegre Estadio Román Valero Estadio Cerro del Espino Centro Deportivo Wanda Ciudad Real Madrid Caja Mágica Madrid Arena Authority control databases International ISNI VIAF National Germany United States Catalonia

______________________________________________________________________
