# WIKIPEDIA ARTICLE: Bayern_Munich

## TABLE OF CONTENTS

1 History
1.1 Early years (1900s–1960s)
1.2 The golden years (1960s–1970s)
1.3 From FC Breitnigge to FC Hollywood (1970s–1990s)
1.4 Renewed international success (1990s–2000s)
1.5 Domestic dominance and continental treble (2000s–2010s)
1.6 Return to German coaches (2019–2024)
1.7 Vincent Kompany era (2024–present)
2 Kits
2.1 Kit suppliers and shirt sponsors
2.2 Kit deals
3 Crest
4 Stadiums
5 Supporters
6 Rivalries
6.1 Borussia Dortmund
6.2 European Rivals
7 Organization and finance
8 Social engagement and charity
9 Training facility
10 Honours
10.1 Trebles
10.2 Sextuple
11 Players
11.1 Current squad
11.2 Bayern Munich II and Junior Team/Campus
11.3 Out on loan
11.4 Retired numbers
11.5 Notable past players
11.6 Captains
12 Coaches and management
12.1 Current staff
12.2 Coaches since 1963
13 Club management
13.1 FC Bayern München AG
13.2 FC Bayern München e. V.
14 Other departments
14.1 Football
14.2 Other sports
15 Literature
16 Notes
17 References
18 See also
19 External links

# FULL CONTENT

## History

History [ edit ] Main article: History of FC Bayern Munich Early years (1900s–1960s) [ edit ] The first game of Bayern Munich against 1. FC Nürnberg in 1901 Bayern Munich was founded by members of a Munich gymnastics club (MTV 1879). When a congregation of members of MTV 1879 decided on 27 February 1900 that the footballers of the club would not be allowed to join the German Football Association (DFB), eleven members of the football division left the congregation and on the same evening founded Fußball-Club Bayern München. Within a few months, Bayern achieved high-scoring victories against all local rivals, including a 15–0 win against Nordstern, and reached the semi-finals of the 1900–01 South German championship . In the following years, the club won some local trophies, and, in 1910–11, Bayern joined the newly founded "Kreisliga", the first regional Bavarian league. The club won this league in its first year, but did not win it again until the beginning of the First World War in 1914, which halted all football activities in Germany. By the end of its first decade of founding, Bayern had its first German national team player, Max Gablonsky. By 1920, it had over 700 members, making it the largest football club in Munich. In the years after the war, Bayern won several regional competitions before winning its first South German championship in 1926, an achievement repeated two years later. Its first national title was gained in 1932 , when coach Richard "Little Dombi" Kohn led the team to the German championship by defeating Eintracht Frankfurt 2–0 in the final. The rise of Adolf Hitler to power put an abrupt end to Bayern's development. Club president Kurt Landauer and the coach, both of whom were Jewish, left the country. Many others in the club were also purged. Bayern was taunted as the " Jew's club ", while local rival 1860 Munich gained much support. Josef Sauter, who was inaugurated in 1943, was the only NSDAP member as president. After a friendly match in Switzerland, some Bayern players greeted Landauer, who was a spectator, and the club was subject to continued discrimination. Bayern was also affected by the ruling that football players had to be full amateurs again, which led to the move of gifted young centre-forward Oskar Rohr to Switzerland . In the following years, Bayern could not sustain its role of contender for the national title, achieving mid-table results in its regional league instead. After the end of the Second World War in 1945, Bayern became a member of the Oberliga Süd , the southern conference of the German first division, which was split five ways at that time. Bayern struggled, hiring and firing 13 coaches between 1945 and 1963. Landauer returned from exile in 1947, and was once again appointed club president, the tenure lasted until 1951. He remains as the club's president with the longest accumulated tenure. Landauer has been deemed the most important figure in Bayern's transition to a professional club. In 1955, the club was relegated but returned to the Oberliga in the following season and won the DFB-Pokal for the first time, beating Fortuna Düsseldorf 1–0 in the final . The club struggled financially, though, verging on bankruptcy at the end of the 1950s. President Reitlinger was ousted in the club's elections of 1958 by the industrialist Roland Endler, who provided financial stability for the club. Under his reign, Bayern had its best years in the Oberliga. Endler was no longer a candidate in 1962, when Wilhelm Neudecker , who became wealthy in the postwar construction boom, replaced him. In 1963, the Oberligas in Germany were consolidated into one national league, the Bundesliga . Five teams from the Oberliga South were admitted. The key to qualifying for the Bundesliga was the accumulated record of the last twelve years, where Bayern was only the sixth-ranked club. To boot, local rivals 1860 Munich , ranked seventh, were champions of the last Oberliga-Süd season and were given preference on the basis of this achievement. After initial protests by Bayern for alleged mistreatment remained fruitless, president Neudecker rose to the challenge and hired Zlatko Čajkovski , who in 1962 led 1. FC Köln to the national championship. Fielding a team with young players like Franz Beckenbauer , Gerd Müller and Sepp Maier – who would later be collectively referred to as the axis , they achieved promotion to the Bundesliga in 1965. The golden years (1960s–1970s) [ edit ] Franz Beckenbauer and Roberto Perfumo before a friendly v Argentina in 1970 Gerd Müller displayed on a 1973 football card In their first Bundesliga season , Bayern finished third and also won the DFB-Pokal . This qualified them for the following year's European Cup Winners' Cup , which they won in the final against Scottish club Rangers , Franz Roth scoring the decider in a 1–0 extra time victory. In 1967, Bayern retained the DFB-Pokal , but slow overall progress saw Branko Zebec take over as coach. He replaced Bayern's offensive style of play with a more disciplined approach, and in doing so achieved the first league and cup double in Bundesliga history in 1969. Bayern Munich are one of five German clubs to win the Bundesliga and DFB-Pokal in the same season along with Borussia Dortmund , 1. FC Köln , Werder Bremen and Bayer Leverkusen . Zebec used only 13 players throughout the season . Udo Lattek took charge in 1970. After winning the DFB-Pokal in his first season , Lattek led Bayern to their third German championship . The deciding match in the 1971–72 season against Schalke 04 was the first match in the new Olympiastadion , and was also the first live televised match in Bundesliga history. Bayern beat Schalke 5–1, so won the title, while also setting several records, including points gained and goals scored. Bayern also won the next two championships, but the zenith was their triumph in the 1974 European Cup Final against Atlético Madrid , which Bayern won 4–0 after a replay. This title – after winning the Cup Winners' trophy 1967 and two semi-finals ( 1968 and 1972 ) in that competition – marked the club's breakthrough as a force on the international stage. FC Bayern Munich against 1. FC Magdeburg in 1974 ( 1974–75 European Cup ) During the following years, the team was unsuccessful domestically, but defended their European title by defeating Leeds United in the 1975 European Cup final , when Roth and Müller secured victory with late goals. "We came back into the game and scored two lucky goals, so in the end, we were the winners, but we were very, very lucky", stated Franz Beckenbauer. Billy Bremner believed the French referee was "very suspicious". Leeds fans then rioted in Paris and were banned from European football for three years. A year later in the final in Glasgow , another Roth goal helped defeat Saint-Étienne , and Bayern became the third club to win the trophy in three consecutive years. The final trophy won by Bayern in this era was the Intercontinental Cup , in which they defeated Brazilian club Cruzeiro over two legs. The rest of the decade was a time of change and saw no further titles for Bayern. In 1977, Franz Beckenbauer left for New York Cosmos and, in 1979, Sepp Maier and Uli Hoeneß retired while Gerd Müller joined the Fort Lauderdale Strikers . Bayerndusel was coined during this period as an expression of either contempt or envy about the sometimes narrow and last-minute wins against other teams. From FC Breitnigge to FC Hollywood (1970s–1990s) [ edit ] The 1980s were a period of off-field turmoil for Bayern, with many changes in personnel and financial problems. On the field, Paul Breitner and Karl-Heinz Rummenigge , termed "FC Breitnigge", led the team to Bundesliga titles in 1980 and 1981 . Apart from a DFB-Pokal win in 1982 , two relatively unsuccessful seasons followed, after which Breitner retired, and former coach Udo Lattek returned. Bayern won the DFB-Pokal in 1984 and went on to win five Bundesliga championships in six seasons, including a double in 1986 . European success, however, was elusive during the decade; Bayern, though, finished as runner-up in the European Cups of 1982 and 1987 . Jupp Heynckes was hired as coach in 1987, but after two consecutive championships in 1988–89 and 1989–90 , Bayern's form dipped. After finishing second in 1990–91 , the club finished just five points above the relegation places in 1991–92 . In 1993–94 , Bayern was eliminated in the UEFA Cup second round to Premier League side Norwich City , who were the only English club to beat Bayern at the Olympiastadion during Bayern's time playing there. Franz Beckenbauer took over for the second half of the 1993–94 season, winning the championship again after a four-year gap. Beckenbauer was then appointed club president. His successors as coach, Giovanni Trapattoni and Otto Rehhagel , both finished trophyless after a season, not meeting the club's high expectations. During this time, Bayern's players frequently appeared in the gossip pages of the press rather than the sports pages, resulting in the nickname "FC Hollywood". Franz Beckenbauer briefly returned at the end of the 1995–96 season as caretaker coach and led his team to victory in the UEFA Cup , beating Bordeaux in the final . For the 1996–97 season , Trapattoni returned to win the championship . In the following season , Bayern lost the title to newly promoted Kaiserslautern and Trapattoni had to take his leave for the second time. Renewed international success (1990s–2000s) [ edit ] The Allianz Arena , opened in 2005, is one of the world's most modern football stadiums . After his success at Borussia Dortmund, Bayern were coached by Ottmar Hitzfeld from 1998 to 2004. In Hitzfeld's first season , Bayern won the Bundesliga and came close to winning the Champions League , losing 2–1 to Manchester United into injury time after leading for most of the match . The following year, in the club's centenary season , Bayern won the third league and cup double in its history. A third consecutive Bundesliga title followed in 2001 , won with a stoppage time goal on the final day of the league season. Days later, Bayern won the Champions League for the fourth time after a 25-year gap, defeating Valencia on penalties . The 2001–02 season began with a win in the Intercontinental Cup , but ended trophyless otherwise. In 2002–03 , Bayern won their fourth double, leading the league by a record margin of 16 points. Hitzfeld's reign ended in 2004, with Bayern underperforming, including defeat by second division Alemannia Aachen in the DFB-Pokal . Felix Magath took over and led Bayern to two consecutive doubles. Prior to the start of the 2005–06 season , Bayern moved from the Olympiastadion to the new Allianz Arena , which the club shared with 1860 Munich. On the field, their performance in 2006–07 was erratic. Trailing in the league and having lost to Alemannia Aachen in the cup yet again, coach Magath was sacked shortly after the winter break. Hitzfeld returned as a trainer in January 2007, but Bayern finished the 2006–07 season in fourth position, meaning no Champions League qualification for the first time in more than a decade. Additional losses in the DFB-Pokal and the DFB-Ligapokal left the club with no honours for the season. Domestic dominance and continental treble (2000s–2010s) [ edit ] For the 2007–08 season , Bayern made drastic squad changes to help rebuild. Among new signings were 2006 World Cup players such as Franck Ribéry , Miroslav Klose and Luca Toni . Bayern won the Bundesliga in convincing fashion, leading the standings on every single week of play, and the DFB-Pokal against Borussia Dortmund. After the season, Bayern's long-term goalkeeper Oliver Kahn retired, which left the club without a top-tier goalkeeper for several seasons. The club's coach Ottmar Hitzfeld also retired and Jürgen Klinsmann was chosen as his successor. However, Klinsmann was sacked before the end of his first season as Bayern trailed Wolfsburg in the league, had lost the quarterfinal of the DFB-Pokal to Bayer Leverkusen , and were defeated in the quarterfinal of the Champions League by Barcelona , conceding four goals in the first half of the first leg. Jupp Heynckes was named caretaker coach and led the club to a second-place finish in the league. Bayern Munich playing against Bayer Leverkusen in the Bundesliga in September 2011 For the 2009–10 season , Bayern hired Dutch manager Louis van Gaal , and Dutch forward Arjen Robben joined Bayern. Robben, alongside Ribéry, would go on to shape Bayern's playstyle of attacking over the wings for the next ten years. The press quickly dubbed the duo "Robbery". In addition, David Alaba and Thomas Müller were promoted to the first team. Van Gaal stated: "With me, Müller always plays", which has become a much-referenced phrase over the years. On the pitch, Bayern had its most successful season since 2001, securing the domestic double and losing only in the final of the Champions League to Inter Milan. Van Gaal was fired in April 2011 as Bayern was trailing in the league and eliminated in the first knockout round of the Champions League , again by Inter. Heynckes returned for his second permanent spell in the 2011–12 season. Although the club had signed Manuel Neuer , ending Bayern's quest for an adequate substitute for Kahn, and Jérôme Boateng for the season, Bayern remained without a title for a second consecutive season, coming in second to Borussia Dortmund in the league and the cup. The Champions League final was held at the Allianz Arena and Bayern reached the final in their home stadium but lost to Chelsea on penalties. Bayern Munich went on to win all titles in 2012–13 . They set various Bundesliga records along the way, becoming the first German team to win the treble . Bayern finished the Bundesliga on 91 points, only eleven points shy of a perfect season. In what was Bayern's third Champions League final appearance within four years, they beat Borussia Dortmund 2–1. A week later, they completed the treble by winning the DFB-Pokal final against Stuttgart . During the season, the club announced that they would hire Pep Guardiola as coach for the 2013–14 season . Originally, the club presented this as Heynckes retiring on the expiration of his contract, but Uli Hoeneß later admitted that it was not Heynckes's decision to leave Bayern at the end of the season. It was actually forced by the club's desire to appoint Guardiola. Guardiola's first season started off well, with Bayern extending a streak of undefeated league matches from the previous season to 53 matches. An eventual loss to Augsburg came two match days after Bayern had won the league title. During the season, Bayern had also claimed two other titles, the FIFA Club World Cup and the UEFA Super Cup , the latter being the last major trophy the club had not yet won. Bayern also won the cup to complete their tenth domestic double, but lost in the semi-final of the Champions League to Real Madrid . Off the pitch, Bayern's president Uli Hoeneß was convicted of tax evasion in March 2014, and sentenced to 3 + 1 ⁄ 2 years in prison. Hoeneß resigned the next day, and vice-president Karl Hopfner was elected president in May. Under Guardiola, Bayern also won the Bundesliga in 2014–15 and 2015–16 , including another double in 2015–16, but did not advance past the semi-finals in the Champions League. Although the club's leadership tried to convince Guardiola to stay, the coach decided not to extend his three-year contract. Carlo Ancelotti was hired as successor to Guardiola. Off the pitch, Uli Hoeneß had been released early from prison and reelected as president in November 2016. Under Ancelotti, Bayern won a fifth consecutive league title. In July 2017, Bayern announced that 1860 Munich would leave the Allianz Arena for good as the club had been relegated to the fourth-tier Regionalliga . During the 2017–18 season , Bayern's performances were perceived to be increasingly lacklustre, and Ancelotti was sacked after a 3–0 loss to Paris St. Germain in the Champions League , early in his second season. Willy Sagnol took over as interim manager for a week, before Jupp Heynckes was announced as coach for the rest of the season, in what was his fourth spell at the club. During the season, the club urged Heynckes—even publicly—to extend his contract, but Heynckes, aged 73, stayed firm that he would retire after the season. Heynckes led the club to another championship, but lost the cup final against Eintracht Frankfurt . Eintracht's coach, Niko Kovač , was named Heynckes' successor at Bayern. In Kovač's first season at Bayern, the club was eliminated by Liverpool in the round of 16 in the Champions League, the first time since 2011 that Bayern did not reach the quarter-final. Bayern won their seventh straight Bundesliga title, however, as they finished two points above Dortmund with 78 points. This Bundesliga title was Ribéry's ninth and Robben's eighth. A week later, Bayern defeated RB Leipzig 3–0 in the 2019 DFB-Pokal final to win their 19th German Cup and to complete their 12th domestic double. Return to German coaches (2019–2024) [ edit ] Kovač was sacked after a 5–1 loss to Eintracht Frankfurt, with Hansi Flick being promoted to interim manager in November 2019. After a satisfying spell as interim, Bayern announced a month later that Flick would remain in charge. Under Flick, the club won the league , having played the most successful second half of a Bundesliga season in history, winning all but one match, which was drawn. The club also won the cup , completing the club's 13th domestic double. In the Champions League , Bayern reached their first final since 2013, having beaten Barcelona 8–2 in the quarter-finals. Bayern defeated Paris Saint-Germain 1–0 in the final , which was held in Lisbon behind closed doors due to the COVID-19 pandemic . Former PSG player Kingsley Coman scored the only goal of the match. Bayern became the second European club after Barcelona to complete the seasonal treble in two different seasons. Bayern started the 2020–21 season by winning the UEFA Super Cup for the second time in their history. Bayern also won the FIFA Club World Cup , defeating Mexican team Tigres 1–0 in the final. Bayern became the second club to win the sextuple , after Barcelona did so in 2009. The club also won its ninth Bundesliga title in a row. During the season, Robert Lewandowski broke Gerd Müller 's record for most goals scored in a Bundesliga season, having scored 41 times in 29 matches. Flick left at the end of the 2020–21 season to manage the Germany national team, and at Flick's request, RB Leipzig manager Julian Nagelsmann succeeded him. According to several news reports, Bayern paid Leipzig €25m as compensation for Nagelsmann's services, a world record for a manager. Under Nagelsmann, Bayern won its 10th consecutive Bundesliga title. In March 2023, Nagelsmann was released by Bayern and replaced with Thomas Tuchel , who led the club to a record eleventh consecutive title , after winning a close title race with Borussia Dortmund . In August 2023, Bayern broke the German transfer record again, signing England captain and all-time leading goalscorer Harry Kane from Tottenham Hotspur for a reported fee of €110m. In February 2024, Bayern and Tuchel announced the end of their cooperation after the end of the season. The 2023–24 Bundesliga was the first season in a decade Bayern Munich did not win the Bundesliga, losing it to Bayer Leverkusen . Vincent Kompany era (2024–present) [ edit ] On 29 May 2024, Vincent Kompany was confirmed as the new head coach of Bayern and received a three-year contract. Bayern started the 2024–25 Bundesliga season with a 3–2 win at VfL Wolfsburg . On 5 May 2025 they won their 34th Bundesliga title after a 2–2 draw between SC Freiburg and Bayer 04 Leverkusen made them champions with two games to spare. ^ "Bayern fans bring club's earliest years to light" . The Local . 22 May 2015. Archived from the original on 25 May 2015 . Retrieved 30 May 2015 . ^ Cite error: The named reference fcbbook1stch was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ a b c "1900 bis 1932: Von Beginn an erfolgreich" [1900 to 1932: Successful from the start] (in German). FC Bayern Munich Official Website. Archived from the original on 28 October 2014 . Retrieved 28 September 2014 . ^ Schulze-Marmeling, Dietrich (2003). Die Bayern. Die Geschichte des deutschen Rekordmeisters (in German). Die Werkstatt. pp. 30– 40. ISBN 3-89533-426-X . ^ a b Kwolek, Sarah-Luisa (13 July 2016). "Von Beginn an erfolgreich" . FC Bayern München (in German). Archived from the original on 1 April 2019 . Retrieved 3 February 2019 . ^ Schulze-Marmeling, Dietrich (2003). Die Bayern. Die Geschichte des deutschen Rekordmeisters (in German). Die Werkstatt. pp. 51– 63. ISBN 3-89533-426-X . ^ Faller, Heike (28 May 2003). "Onkel Kurt und die Bayern" . Die Zeit (in German). Archived from the original on 17 October 2014 . Retrieved 16 October 2014 . ^ Schulze-Marmeling, Dietrich (2003). Die Bayern. Die Geschichte des deutschen Rekordmeisters (in German). Die Werkstatt. pp. 101– 2. ISBN 3-89533-426-X . ^ "Kurt Landauer: Der Mann, der den FC Bayern erfand" (in German). Bayerischer Rundfunk . Archived from the original on 15 October 2014 . Retrieved 16 October 2014 . ^ "DFB-Auszeichnung: Bayern-Ultras erhalten Julius-Hirsch-Preis" . Der Spiegel (in German). 14 October 2014. Archived from the original on 18 October 2014 . Retrieved 16 October 2014 . ^ Schulze-Marmeling, Dietrich (2003). Die Bayern. Die Geschichte des deutschen Rekordmeisters (in German). Die Werkstatt. pp. 105– 120. ISBN 3-89533-426-X . ^ a b c "1933 bis 1965: Harte Zeiten und Wiederaufbau" [1933 to 1965: Hard Times and Reconstruction] (in German). FC Bayern Erlebniswelt. Archived from the original on 12 March 2014 . Retrieved 28 September 2014 . ^ Schulze-Marmeling, Dietrich (2003). Die Bayern. Die Geschichte des deutschen Rekordmeisters (in German). Die Werkstatt. pp. 120– 126. ISBN 3-89533-426-X . ^ "Wilhelm Neudecker (†)" . ^ "Wilhelm Neudecker and the beginning of a new era" . ^ Hardy Grüne, Christian Karn: Das große Buch der deutschen Fußballvereine. AGON Sportverlag, Kassel 2009, p. 364, 414. ^ Schulze-Marmeling, Dietrich (2003). Die Bayern. Die Geschichte des deutschen Rekordmeisters (in German). Die Werkstatt. p. 134. ISBN 3-89533-426-X . ^ Schulze-Marmeling, Dietrich (2003). Die Bayern. Die Geschichte des deutschen Rekordmeisters (in German). Die Werkstatt. pp. 155– 158. ISBN 3-89533-426-X . ^ Schulze-Marmeling, Dietrich (2003). Die Bayern. Die Geschichte des deutschen Rekordmeisters (in German). Die Werkstatt. pp. 165– 171. ISBN 3-89533-426-X . ^ "1966 bis 1979: Goldene Jahre" [1966 to 1979: Golden Years] (in German). FC Bayern Erlebniswelt. Archived from the original on 28 October 2014 . Retrieved 28 September 2014 . ^ "Unlucky Paris match for Leeds" . BBC Sport . 19 May 1999. Archived from the original on 15 June 2013 . Retrieved 29 March 2012 . ^ Schulze-Marmeling, Dietrich (2003). Die Bayern. Die Geschichte des deutschen Rekordmeisters (in German). Die Werkstatt. pp. 190– 198. ISBN 3-89533-426-X . ^ Schulze-Marmeling, Dietrich (2003). Die Bayern. Die Geschichte des deutschen Rekordmeisters (in German). Die Werkstatt. pp. 214– 226. ISBN 3-89533-426-X . ^ "Mit dem Bayern-Dusel wird Hertha sogar Meister" [Hertha to become Champion based on Bayerndusel]. Welt Online (in German). 16 March 2009. ^ "Schalke mit Bayerndusel" [Schalke with Bayerndusel]. Focus Online (in German). 15 October 2005. ^ Eichler, Christian (2000). Lexikon der Fußballmythen (in German). Frankfurt am Main: Eichborn-Verlag. p. 232. ^ Hoeltzenbein, Klaus (23 February 2004). "Die Schwächeren schlagen die Dümmeren" [The weaker ones beat the dumber ones]. Süddeutsche Zeitung (in German). ^ Schulze-Marmeling, Dietrich (2003). Die Bayern. Die Geschichte des deutschen Rekordmeisters (in German). Die Werkstatt. pp. 226– 267. ISBN 3-89533-426-X . ^ Staffpublished, P. A. (19 October 2020). "On this day in 1993: Norwich stun Bayern Munich in UEFA Cup" . fourfourtwo.com . Archived from the original on 11 April 2023 . Retrieved 11 April 2023 . ^ Schulze-Marmeling, Dietrich (2003). Die Bayern. Die Geschichte des deutschen Rekordmeisters (in German). Die Werkstatt. pp. 273– 299. ISBN 3-89533-426-X . ^ "1990 bis 1999: Trainerwechsel und Titel" [1990 to 1999: Titles and Changes of Managers] (in German). FC Bayern Erlebniswelt. Archived from the original on 3 April 2015 . Retrieved 28 September 2014 . ^ "CL Comment: Van Gaal's Bayern Give New Meaning to "FC Hollywood" " . Goal (website) . 8 April 2010. Archived from the original on 18 January 2014 . Retrieved 9 June 2013 . ^ UEFA.com (1 June 1996). "1995/96: Klinsmann sparks Bayern triumph" . UEFA. Archived from the original on 27 February 2023 . Retrieved 27 March 2023 . ^ Schulze-Marmeling, Dietrich (2003). Die Bayern. Die Geschichte des deutschen Rekordmeisters (in German). Die Werkstatt. pp. 307– 345. ISBN 3-89533-426-X . ^ "The most unlikely Bundesliga winners of all – DW – 03/28/2020" . Deutsche Welle. Archived from the original on 27 March 2023 . Retrieved 27 March 2023 . ^ Jenkins, Tom (30 March 2010). "Football: How Manchester United won the Champions League in 1999" . The Guardian . ISSN 0261-3077 . Archived from the original on 27 March 2023 . Retrieved 27 March 2023 . ^ "Bayern wins Bundesliga, eyes Champions League" . Sports Illustrated . 19 May 2001. Archived from the original on 11 September 2004 . Retrieved 28 November 2013 . ^ "Vier Minuten im Mai" . Sport1 (in German). 12 May 2009. Archived from the original on 9 August 2017 . Retrieved 28 November 2013 . ^ UEFA.com (23 May 2001). "2000/01: Kahn saves day for Bayern" . UEFA. Archived from the original on 25 March 2023 . Retrieved 27 March 2023 . ^ "Intercontinental Cup Winner 2001" . FC Bayern . Archived from the original on 21 January 2021 . Retrieved 11 April 2023 . ^ Schulze-Marmeling, Dietrich (2003). Die Bayern. Die Geschichte des deutschen Rekordmeisters (in German). Die Werkstatt. pp. 351– 433. ISBN 3-89533-426-X . ^ "CNN.com - Aachen shock holders Bayern in cup - Feb. 4, 2004" . CNN . Archived from the original on 4 June 2023 . Retrieved 4 June 2023 . ^ "The Allianz Arena: The A-Z of Bayern Munich's home" . bundesliga.com – the official Bundesliga website . Archived from the original on 11 April 2023 . Retrieved 11 April 2023 . ^ "Bayern part company with Felix Magath" . FC Bayern Munich Official Website. 31 January 2007. Archived from the original on 21 December 2008 . Retrieved 15 July 2008 . ^ Bayern Magazin: 1/59, pages: 16–21, 11 August 2007 (in German) ^ "Fussballdaten – Zahlen, Texte, Bilder" (in German). fussballdaten.de. 17 May 2008. Archived from the original on 26 May 2008 . Retrieved 15 July 2008 . ^ "Oliver Kahn Retires – DW – 05/17/2008" . Deutsche Welle. Archived from the original on 11 April 2023 . Retrieved 11 April 2023 . ^ "Jürgen Klinsmann to succeed Hitzfeld at Bayern" . The official FC Bayern Munich website. 11 January 2008. Archived from the original on 21 December 2008 . Retrieved 11 January 2008 . ^ "End of a Brief Era: German Club Bayern Munich Sacks Coach Klinsmann" . Der Spiegel . 27 April 2009. Archived from the original on 4 April 2015 . Retrieved 1 February 2015 . ^ "Bayern Munich name Louis van Gaal as their new manager" . The Guardian . 13 May 2009. ISSN 0261-3077 . Archived from the original on 13 April 2023 . Retrieved 11 April 2023 . ^ "Bayern sign Dutch winger Robben from Real" . Reuters . 28 August 2009. Archived from the original on 11 March 2023 . Retrieved 11 April 2023 . ^ "Müller deutet wieder Räume" . Der Spiegel (in German). 20 April 2019. Archived from the original on 28 April 2019 . Retrieved 20 April 2019 . ^ "Bayern win Cup to clinch Double" . BBC. 15 May 2010. Archived from the original on 18 May 2010 . Retrieved 15 May 2010 . ^ "Champions League Final 2010 Statistics" . WhoScored.com. Archived from the original on 4 March 2011. ^ "Louis van Gaal sacked by Bayern Munich" . The Guardian . Press Association. 10 April 2011. ISSN 0261-3077 . Archived from the original on 6 July 2023 . Retrieved 27 March 2023 . ^ "Dortmund do the double – DW – 05/12/2012" . Deutsche Welle. Archived from the original on 27 March 2023 . Retrieved 27 March 2023 . ^ Smyth, Rob (19 May 2012). "Champions League final: Bayern Munich v Chelsea – as it happened | Rob Smyth" . The Guardian . ISSN 0261-3077 . Archived from the original on 27 March 2023 . Retrieved 27 March 2023 . ^ "Records fall as Bayern seal stunning title triumph" . 6 April 2013. Archived from the original on 28 September 2014 . Retrieved 28 September 2014 . ^ Haslam, Andrew (25 May 2013). "Robben ends Bayern's run of final misery" . UEFA. Archived from the original on 7 October 2014 . Retrieved 28 September 2014 . ^ "Bayern win cup and treble – DW – 06/01/2013" . dw.com . Archived from the original on 4 April 2023 . Retrieved 4 June 2023 . ^ "Guardiola to take charge at Bayern | FC Bayern Munich" . bundesliga.com – the official Bundesliga website . Retrieved 20 May 2023 . ^ "Augsburg inflict first league defeat on Bayern Munich" . Eurosport . 5 April 2014. Archived from the original on 7 April 2014. ^ "Super Bayern crowned club world champions" . Archived from the original on 12 February 2015. ^ "Bayern tackle Chelsea in Prague Super Cup" . UEFA. 26 May 2013. Archived from the original on 10 June 2013 . Retrieved 13 June 2013 . ^ "Bayern beats Dortmund 2–0 in German Cup final" . USA Today . 17 May 2014. Archived from the original on 18 May 2014 . Retrieved 18 May 2014 . ^ "Bayern Munich 0 Real Madrid 4; agg 0–5: match report" . The Daily Telegraph . Archived from the original on 11 April 2023 . Retrieved 11 April 2023 . ^ Oltermann, Philip (13 March 2014). "Uli Hoeness sentenced to three-and-a-half years in jail for tax evasion" . The Guardian . ISSN 0261-3077 . Archived from the original on 11 April 2023 . Retrieved 11 April 2023 . ^ "Bayern chief defends club's transfer policy" . ESPN.com . 11 September 2014 . Retrieved 12 January 2025 . Hopfner, who has worked at Bayern in various positions since 1983, succeeded Uli Hoeness as president after he was imprisoned following his tax evasion trial earlier this year. The 62-year-old was elected into the role in May, and on Monday he was chosen as the club's new chairman of the supervisory board until the end of 2015. ^ "Bayern Munich 0–0 Borussia Dortmund" . BBC. 21 May 2016. Archived from the original on 5 October 2017. ^ "Pep Guardiola to leave Bayern Munich – DW – 12/20/2015" . Deutsche Welle. Archived from the original on 27 March 2023 . Retrieved 27 March 2023 . ^ "Bayern Munich confirm Carlo Ancelotti will replace Pep Guardiola" . Sky Sports . 20 December 2015. Archived from the original on 24 May 2016. ^ "Released From Prison, Former Bayern Munich President Is Re-elected" . The New York Times . Associated Press. 26 November 2016. ISSN 0362-4331 . Archived from the original on 11 April 2023 . Retrieved 11 April 2023 . ^ "Bayern Munich seal Bundesliga title as Leipzig and Dortmund draw" . ESPN FC . 29 April 2017. Archived from the original on 8 May 2017. ^ "Bayern cancel 1860 Munich's stadium deal" . ESPN. 12 July 2017. Archived from the original on 4 April 2023 . Retrieved 11 April 2023 . ^ "FC Bayern part company with Carlo Ancelotti" . fcbayern.com . 28 September 2017. Archived from the original on 28 September 2017 . Retrieved 28 September 2017 . ^ "Bayern Munich appoint Heynckes as coach to end of season" . Reuters . 6 October 2017. Archived from the original on 27 March 2023 . Retrieved 27 March 2023 . ^ "Retired Bayern Munich mastermind Jupp Heynckes named Germany's Coach of the Year 2017/18" . bundesliga.com – the official Bundesliga website . Retrieved 11 April 2023 . ^ "Bayern Munich 1–3 Eintracht Frankfurt: Bayern stunned in DFB-Pokal final" . Sky Sports . Archived from the original on 27 March 2023 . Retrieved 27 March 2023 . ^ "Champions League: Bayern bow out after Sadio Mane magic – DW – 03/13/2019" . Deutsche Welle. Archived from the original on 27 March 2023 . Retrieved 27 March 2023 . ^ "Bayern Munich crowned Bundesliga champion as Robben and Ribery bid farewell" . CNN. 18 May 2019. Archived from the original on 11 April 2023 . Retrieved 11 April 2023 . ^ "Robert Lewandowski hits brace as Bayern Munich beat RB Leipzig in DFB Cup final to seal the double" . bundesliga.com – the official Bundesliga website . Archived from the original on 25 May 2019 . Retrieved 27 March 2023 . ^ "Niko Kovac leaves Bayern Munich after Eintracht Frankfurt thrashing" . The Guardian . 3 November 2019. Archived from the original on 12 November 2020 . Retrieved 4 November 2019 . ^ "FC Bayern and head coach Niko Kovac part company" . fcbayern.com . Bayern Munich. 3 November 2019. Archived from the original on 3 November 2019 . Retrieved 3 November 2019 . ^ "Flick to remain FC Bayern head coach until end of season" . fcbayern.com . Bayern Munich. 22 December 2019. Archived from the original on 22 December 2019 . Retrieved 26 December 2019 . ^ "Champions Bayern Munich ease to victory on final day" . Eurosport . 24 June 2020. Archived from the original on 3 December 2022 . Retrieved 15 February 2023 . ^ "German Cup final: Irresistible Bayern secure domestic double – DW – 07/04/2020" . Deutsche Welle. Archived from the original on 15 February 2023 . Retrieved 15 February 2023 . ^ Murray, Scott (14 August 2020). "Barcelona 2–8 Bayern Munich: Champions League quarter-final – as it happened" . The Guardian . ISSN 0261-3077 . Archived from the original on 18 April 2023 . Retrieved 11 April 2023 . ^ "Bayern Munich defeats Paris Saint-Germain in UEFA Champions League final on Kingsley Coman's goal" . USA Today . Archived from the original on 27 March 2023 . Retrieved 27 March 2023 . ^ "Who's won the treble? Bayern double up" . UEFA. 4 September 2020. Archived from the original on 17 April 2021 . Retrieved 8 October 2020 . ^ "Pavard completes sextuple for dominant Bayern" . FIFA . 11 February 2021. Archived from the original on 11 February 2021 . Retrieved 12 February 2021 . ^ Ben Church and George Ramsay. "Bayern Munich wins ninth consecutive Bundesliga title" . CNN. Archived from the original on 15 July 2022 . Retrieved 15 July 2022 . ^ "Lewandowski scores 41st Bundesliga goal of season to break Müller's record" . The Guardian . 22 May 2021. Archived from the original on 29 October 2021 . Retrieved 22 May 2021 . ^ "Bayern appoint Nagelsmann as new manager" . ESPN. 27 April 2021. Archived from the original on 6 June 2021 . Retrieved 6 June 2021 . ^ "Germany hire Treble-winning Flick as manager" . ESPN. 25 May 2021. Archived from the original on 6 June 2021 . Retrieved 6 June 2021 . ^ Falk, Christian (27 April 2021). "Julian Nagelsmann leaving RB Leipzig to become Bayern Munich manager" . The Guardian . Archived from the original on 24 October 2021 . Retrieved 6 June 2021 . ^ Ben Church. "Bayern Munich wins 10th consecutive Bundesliga title after beating Borussia Dortmund" . CNN. Archived from the original on 15 July 2022 . Retrieved 15 July 2022 . ^ "FC Bayern and Julian Nagelsmann part company – Thomas Tuchel new head coach" . FC Bayern Munich. 24 March 2023. Archived from the original on 24 March 2023 . Retrieved 24 March 2023 . ^ Ronald, Issy (27 May 2023). "Bayern Munich wins 11th straight Bundesliga title after Borussia Dortmund draws on dramatic final day" . CNN. Archived from the original on 28 May 2023 . Retrieved 28 May 2023 . ^ "FC Bayern sign Harry Kane" . FC Bayern Munich. 12 August 2023. Archived from the original on 12 August 2023 . Retrieved 12 August 2023 . ^ "FC Bayern and Thomas Tuchel to end their working relationship in the summer" . fcbayern.com . FC Bayern München . Retrieved 9 September 2024 . ^ "Vincent Kompany named new FC Bayern head coach" . fcbayern.com . FC Bayern München . Retrieved 9 September 2024 . ^ "Bayern 3-2 Wolfsburg (Aug 25, 2024) Game Analysis" . ESPN . Retrieved 5 May 2025 . ^ Salmen, Greg. "Bayern battle past Wolfsburg" . fcbayern.com . FC Bayern München . Retrieved 9 September 2024 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Early years (1900s–1960s)

Early years (1900s–1960s) [ edit ] The first game of Bayern Munich against 1. FC Nürnberg in 1901 Bayern Munich was founded by members of a Munich gymnastics club (MTV 1879). When a congregation of members of MTV 1879 decided on 27 February 1900 that the footballers of the club would not be allowed to join the German Football Association (DFB), eleven members of the football division left the congregation and on the same evening founded Fußball-Club Bayern München. Within a few months, Bayern achieved high-scoring victories against all local rivals, including a 15–0 win against Nordstern, and reached the semi-finals of the 1900–01 South German championship . In the following years, the club won some local trophies, and, in 1910–11, Bayern joined the newly founded "Kreisliga", the first regional Bavarian league. The club won this league in its first year, but did not win it again until the beginning of the First World War in 1914, which halted all football activities in Germany. By the end of its first decade of founding, Bayern had its first German national team player, Max Gablonsky. By 1920, it had over 700 members, making it the largest football club in Munich. In the years after the war, Bayern won several regional competitions before winning its first South German championship in 1926, an achievement repeated two years later. Its first national title was gained in 1932 , when coach Richard "Little Dombi" Kohn led the team to the German championship by defeating Eintracht Frankfurt 2–0 in the final. The rise of Adolf Hitler to power put an abrupt end to Bayern's development. Club president Kurt Landauer and the coach, both of whom were Jewish, left the country. Many others in the club were also purged. Bayern was taunted as the " Jew's club ", while local rival 1860 Munich gained much support. Josef Sauter, who was inaugurated in 1943, was the only NSDAP member as president. After a friendly match in Switzerland, some Bayern players greeted Landauer, who was a spectator, and the club was subject to continued discrimination. Bayern was also affected by the ruling that football players had to be full amateurs again, which led to the move of gifted young centre-forward Oskar Rohr to Switzerland . In the following years, Bayern could not sustain its role of contender for the national title, achieving mid-table results in its regional league instead. After the end of the Second World War in 1945, Bayern became a member of the Oberliga Süd , the southern conference of the German first division, which was split five ways at that time. Bayern struggled, hiring and firing 13 coaches between 1945 and 1963. Landauer returned from exile in 1947, and was once again appointed club president, the tenure lasted until 1951. He remains as the club's president with the longest accumulated tenure. Landauer has been deemed the most important figure in Bayern's transition to a professional club. In 1955, the club was relegated but returned to the Oberliga in the following season and won the DFB-Pokal for the first time, beating Fortuna Düsseldorf 1–0 in the final . The club struggled financially, though, verging on bankruptcy at the end of the 1950s. President Reitlinger was ousted in the club's elections of 1958 by the industrialist Roland Endler, who provided financial stability for the club. Under his reign, Bayern had its best years in the Oberliga. Endler was no longer a candidate in 1962, when Wilhelm Neudecker , who became wealthy in the postwar construction boom, replaced him. In 1963, the Oberligas in Germany were consolidated into one national league, the Bundesliga . Five teams from the Oberliga South were admitted. The key to qualifying for the Bundesliga was the accumulated record of the last twelve years, where Bayern was only the sixth-ranked club. To boot, local rivals 1860 Munich , ranked seventh, were champions of the last Oberliga-Süd season and were given preference on the basis of this achievement. After initial protests by Bayern for alleged mistreatment remained fruitless, president Neudecker rose to the challenge and hired Zlatko Čajkovski , who in 1962 led 1. FC Köln to the national championship. Fielding a team with young players like Franz Beckenbauer , Gerd Müller and Sepp Maier – who would later be collectively referred to as the axis , they achieved promotion to the Bundesliga in 1965. ^ "Bayern fans bring club's earliest years to light" . The Local . 22 May 2015. Archived from the original on 25 May 2015 . Retrieved 30 May 2015 . ^ Cite error: The named reference fcbbook1stch was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ a b c "1900 bis 1932: Von Beginn an erfolgreich" [1900 to 1932: Successful from the start] (in German). FC Bayern Munich Official Website. Archived from the original on 28 October 2014 . Retrieved 28 September 2014 . ^ Schulze-Marmeling, Dietrich (2003). Die Bayern. Die Geschichte des deutschen Rekordmeisters (in German). Die Werkstatt. pp. 30– 40. ISBN 3-89533-426-X . ^ a b Kwolek, Sarah-Luisa (13 July 2016). "Von Beginn an erfolgreich" . FC Bayern München (in German). Archived from the original on 1 April 2019 . Retrieved 3 February 2019 . ^ Schulze-Marmeling, Dietrich (2003). Die Bayern. Die Geschichte des deutschen Rekordmeisters (in German). Die Werkstatt. pp. 51– 63. ISBN 3-89533-426-X . ^ Faller, Heike (28 May 2003). "Onkel Kurt und die Bayern" . Die Zeit (in German). Archived from the original on 17 October 2014 . Retrieved 16 October 2014 . ^ Schulze-Marmeling, Dietrich (2003). Die Bayern. Die Geschichte des deutschen Rekordmeisters (in German). Die Werkstatt. pp. 101– 2. ISBN 3-89533-426-X . ^ "Kurt Landauer: Der Mann, der den FC Bayern erfand" (in German). Bayerischer Rundfunk . Archived from the original on 15 October 2014 . Retrieved 16 October 2014 . ^ "DFB-Auszeichnung: Bayern-Ultras erhalten Julius-Hirsch-Preis" . Der Spiegel (in German). 14 October 2014. Archived from the original on 18 October 2014 . Retrieved 16 October 2014 . ^ Schulze-Marmeling, Dietrich (2003). Die Bayern. Die Geschichte des deutschen Rekordmeisters (in German). Die Werkstatt. pp. 105– 120. ISBN 3-89533-426-X . ^ a b "1933 bis 1965: Harte Zeiten und Wiederaufbau" [1933 to 1965: Hard Times and Reconstruction] (in German). FC Bayern Erlebniswelt. Archived from the original on 12 March 2014 . Retrieved 28 September 2014 . ^ Schulze-Marmeling, Dietrich (2003). Die Bayern. Die Geschichte des deutschen Rekordmeisters (in German). Die Werkstatt. pp. 120– 126. ISBN 3-89533-426-X . ^ "Wilhelm Neudecker (†)" . ^ "Wilhelm Neudecker and the beginning of a new era" . ^ Hardy Grüne, Christian Karn: Das große Buch der deutschen Fußballvereine. AGON Sportverlag, Kassel 2009, p. 364, 414. ^ Schulze-Marmeling, Dietrich (2003). Die Bayern. Die Geschichte des deutschen Rekordmeisters (in German). Die Werkstatt. p. 134. ISBN 3-89533-426-X .

______________________________________________________________________

### The golden years (1960s–1970s)

The golden years (1960s–1970s) [ edit ] Franz Beckenbauer and Roberto Perfumo before a friendly v Argentina in 1970 Gerd Müller displayed on a 1973 football card In their first Bundesliga season , Bayern finished third and also won the DFB-Pokal . This qualified them for the following year's European Cup Winners' Cup , which they won in the final against Scottish club Rangers , Franz Roth scoring the decider in a 1–0 extra time victory. In 1967, Bayern retained the DFB-Pokal , but slow overall progress saw Branko Zebec take over as coach. He replaced Bayern's offensive style of play with a more disciplined approach, and in doing so achieved the first league and cup double in Bundesliga history in 1969. Bayern Munich are one of five German clubs to win the Bundesliga and DFB-Pokal in the same season along with Borussia Dortmund , 1. FC Köln , Werder Bremen and Bayer Leverkusen . Zebec used only 13 players throughout the season . Udo Lattek took charge in 1970. After winning the DFB-Pokal in his first season , Lattek led Bayern to their third German championship . The deciding match in the 1971–72 season against Schalke 04 was the first match in the new Olympiastadion , and was also the first live televised match in Bundesliga history. Bayern beat Schalke 5–1, so won the title, while also setting several records, including points gained and goals scored. Bayern also won the next two championships, but the zenith was their triumph in the 1974 European Cup Final against Atlético Madrid , which Bayern won 4–0 after a replay. This title – after winning the Cup Winners' trophy 1967 and two semi-finals ( 1968 and 1972 ) in that competition – marked the club's breakthrough as a force on the international stage. FC Bayern Munich against 1. FC Magdeburg in 1974 ( 1974–75 European Cup ) During the following years, the team was unsuccessful domestically, but defended their European title by defeating Leeds United in the 1975 European Cup final , when Roth and Müller secured victory with late goals. "We came back into the game and scored two lucky goals, so in the end, we were the winners, but we were very, very lucky", stated Franz Beckenbauer. Billy Bremner believed the French referee was "very suspicious". Leeds fans then rioted in Paris and were banned from European football for three years. A year later in the final in Glasgow , another Roth goal helped defeat Saint-Étienne , and Bayern became the third club to win the trophy in three consecutive years. The final trophy won by Bayern in this era was the Intercontinental Cup , in which they defeated Brazilian club Cruzeiro over two legs. The rest of the decade was a time of change and saw no further titles for Bayern. In 1977, Franz Beckenbauer left for New York Cosmos and, in 1979, Sepp Maier and Uli Hoeneß retired while Gerd Müller joined the Fort Lauderdale Strikers . Bayerndusel was coined during this period as an expression of either contempt or envy about the sometimes narrow and last-minute wins against other teams. ^ Cite error: The named reference bayernhistory4667 was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ Schulze-Marmeling, Dietrich (2003). Die Bayern. Die Geschichte des deutschen Rekordmeisters (in German). Die Werkstatt. pp. 155– 158. ISBN 3-89533-426-X . ^ Schulze-Marmeling, Dietrich (2003). Die Bayern. Die Geschichte des deutschen Rekordmeisters (in German). Die Werkstatt. pp. 165– 171. ISBN 3-89533-426-X . ^ "1966 bis 1979: Goldene Jahre" [1966 to 1979: Golden Years] (in German). FC Bayern Erlebniswelt. Archived from the original on 28 October 2014 . Retrieved 28 September 2014 . ^ "Unlucky Paris match for Leeds" . BBC Sport . 19 May 1999. Archived from the original on 15 June 2013 . Retrieved 29 March 2012 . ^ Schulze-Marmeling, Dietrich (2003). Die Bayern. Die Geschichte des deutschen Rekordmeisters (in German). Die Werkstatt. pp. 190– 198. ISBN 3-89533-426-X . ^ Schulze-Marmeling, Dietrich (2003). Die Bayern. Die Geschichte des deutschen Rekordmeisters (in German). Die Werkstatt. pp. 214– 226. ISBN 3-89533-426-X . ^ "Mit dem Bayern-Dusel wird Hertha sogar Meister" [Hertha to become Champion based on Bayerndusel]. Welt Online (in German). 16 March 2009. ^ "Schalke mit Bayerndusel" [Schalke with Bayerndusel]. Focus Online (in German). 15 October 2005. ^ Eichler, Christian (2000). Lexikon der Fußballmythen (in German). Frankfurt am Main: Eichborn-Verlag. p. 232. ^ Hoeltzenbein, Klaus (23 February 2004). "Die Schwächeren schlagen die Dümmeren" [The weaker ones beat the dumber ones]. Süddeutsche Zeitung (in German).

______________________________________________________________________

### From FC Breitnigge to FC Hollywood (1970s–1990s)

From FC Breitnigge to FC Hollywood (1970s–1990s) [ edit ] The 1980s were a period of off-field turmoil for Bayern, with many changes in personnel and financial problems. On the field, Paul Breitner and Karl-Heinz Rummenigge , termed "FC Breitnigge", led the team to Bundesliga titles in 1980 and 1981 . Apart from a DFB-Pokal win in 1982 , two relatively unsuccessful seasons followed, after which Breitner retired, and former coach Udo Lattek returned. Bayern won the DFB-Pokal in 1984 and went on to win five Bundesliga championships in six seasons, including a double in 1986 . European success, however, was elusive during the decade; Bayern, though, finished as runner-up in the European Cups of 1982 and 1987 . Jupp Heynckes was hired as coach in 1987, but after two consecutive championships in 1988–89 and 1989–90 , Bayern's form dipped. After finishing second in 1990–91 , the club finished just five points above the relegation places in 1991–92 . In 1993–94 , Bayern was eliminated in the UEFA Cup second round to Premier League side Norwich City , who were the only English club to beat Bayern at the Olympiastadion during Bayern's time playing there. Franz Beckenbauer took over for the second half of the 1993–94 season, winning the championship again after a four-year gap. Beckenbauer was then appointed club president. His successors as coach, Giovanni Trapattoni and Otto Rehhagel , both finished trophyless after a season, not meeting the club's high expectations. During this time, Bayern's players frequently appeared in the gossip pages of the press rather than the sports pages, resulting in the nickname "FC Hollywood". Franz Beckenbauer briefly returned at the end of the 1995–96 season as caretaker coach and led his team to victory in the UEFA Cup , beating Bordeaux in the final . For the 1996–97 season , Trapattoni returned to win the championship . In the following season , Bayern lost the title to newly promoted Kaiserslautern and Trapattoni had to take his leave for the second time. ^ Schulze-Marmeling, Dietrich (2003). Die Bayern. Die Geschichte des deutschen Rekordmeisters (in German). Die Werkstatt. pp. 226– 267. ISBN 3-89533-426-X . ^ Staffpublished, P. A. (19 October 2020). "On this day in 1993: Norwich stun Bayern Munich in UEFA Cup" . fourfourtwo.com . Archived from the original on 11 April 2023 . Retrieved 11 April 2023 . ^ Schulze-Marmeling, Dietrich (2003). Die Bayern. Die Geschichte des deutschen Rekordmeisters (in German). Die Werkstatt. pp. 273– 299. ISBN 3-89533-426-X . ^ "1990 bis 1999: Trainerwechsel und Titel" [1990 to 1999: Titles and Changes of Managers] (in German). FC Bayern Erlebniswelt. Archived from the original on 3 April 2015 . Retrieved 28 September 2014 . ^ "CL Comment: Van Gaal's Bayern Give New Meaning to "FC Hollywood" " . Goal (website) . 8 April 2010. Archived from the original on 18 January 2014 . Retrieved 9 June 2013 . ^ UEFA.com (1 June 1996). "1995/96: Klinsmann sparks Bayern triumph" . UEFA. Archived from the original on 27 February 2023 . Retrieved 27 March 2023 . ^ Schulze-Marmeling, Dietrich (2003). Die Bayern. Die Geschichte des deutschen Rekordmeisters (in German). Die Werkstatt. pp. 307– 345. ISBN 3-89533-426-X . ^ "The most unlikely Bundesliga winners of all – DW – 03/28/2020" . Deutsche Welle. Archived from the original on 27 March 2023 . Retrieved 27 March 2023 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Renewed international success (1990s–2000s)

Renewed international success (1990s–2000s) [ edit ] The Allianz Arena , opened in 2005, is one of the world's most modern football stadiums . After his success at Borussia Dortmund, Bayern were coached by Ottmar Hitzfeld from 1998 to 2004. In Hitzfeld's first season , Bayern won the Bundesliga and came close to winning the Champions League , losing 2–1 to Manchester United into injury time after leading for most of the match . The following year, in the club's centenary season , Bayern won the third league and cup double in its history. A third consecutive Bundesliga title followed in 2001 , won with a stoppage time goal on the final day of the league season. Days later, Bayern won the Champions League for the fourth time after a 25-year gap, defeating Valencia on penalties . The 2001–02 season began with a win in the Intercontinental Cup , but ended trophyless otherwise. In 2002–03 , Bayern won their fourth double, leading the league by a record margin of 16 points. Hitzfeld's reign ended in 2004, with Bayern underperforming, including defeat by second division Alemannia Aachen in the DFB-Pokal . Felix Magath took over and led Bayern to two consecutive doubles. Prior to the start of the 2005–06 season , Bayern moved from the Olympiastadion to the new Allianz Arena , which the club shared with 1860 Munich. On the field, their performance in 2006–07 was erratic. Trailing in the league and having lost to Alemannia Aachen in the cup yet again, coach Magath was sacked shortly after the winter break. Hitzfeld returned as a trainer in January 2007, but Bayern finished the 2006–07 season in fourth position, meaning no Champions League qualification for the first time in more than a decade. Additional losses in the DFB-Pokal and the DFB-Ligapokal left the club with no honours for the season. ^ Jenkins, Tom (30 March 2010). "Football: How Manchester United won the Champions League in 1999" . The Guardian . ISSN 0261-3077 . Archived from the original on 27 March 2023 . Retrieved 27 March 2023 . ^ "Bayern wins Bundesliga, eyes Champions League" . Sports Illustrated . 19 May 2001. Archived from the original on 11 September 2004 . Retrieved 28 November 2013 . ^ "Vier Minuten im Mai" . Sport1 (in German). 12 May 2009. Archived from the original on 9 August 2017 . Retrieved 28 November 2013 . ^ UEFA.com (23 May 2001). "2000/01: Kahn saves day for Bayern" . UEFA. Archived from the original on 25 March 2023 . Retrieved 27 March 2023 . ^ "Intercontinental Cup Winner 2001" . FC Bayern . Archived from the original on 21 January 2021 . Retrieved 11 April 2023 . ^ Schulze-Marmeling, Dietrich (2003). Die Bayern. Die Geschichte des deutschen Rekordmeisters (in German). Die Werkstatt. pp. 351– 433. ISBN 3-89533-426-X . ^ "CNN.com - Aachen shock holders Bayern in cup - Feb. 4, 2004" . CNN . Archived from the original on 4 June 2023 . Retrieved 4 June 2023 . ^ "The Allianz Arena: The A-Z of Bayern Munich's home" . bundesliga.com – the official Bundesliga website . Archived from the original on 11 April 2023 . Retrieved 11 April 2023 . ^ "Bayern part company with Felix Magath" . FC Bayern Munich Official Website. 31 January 2007. Archived from the original on 21 December 2008 . Retrieved 15 July 2008 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Domestic dominance and continental treble (2000s–2010s)

Domestic dominance and continental treble (2000s–2010s) [ edit ] For the 2007–08 season , Bayern made drastic squad changes to help rebuild. Among new signings were 2006 World Cup players such as Franck Ribéry , Miroslav Klose and Luca Toni . Bayern won the Bundesliga in convincing fashion, leading the standings on every single week of play, and the DFB-Pokal against Borussia Dortmund. After the season, Bayern's long-term goalkeeper Oliver Kahn retired, which left the club without a top-tier goalkeeper for several seasons. The club's coach Ottmar Hitzfeld also retired and Jürgen Klinsmann was chosen as his successor. However, Klinsmann was sacked before the end of his first season as Bayern trailed Wolfsburg in the league, had lost the quarterfinal of the DFB-Pokal to Bayer Leverkusen , and were defeated in the quarterfinal of the Champions League by Barcelona , conceding four goals in the first half of the first leg. Jupp Heynckes was named caretaker coach and led the club to a second-place finish in the league. Bayern Munich playing against Bayer Leverkusen in the Bundesliga in September 2011 For the 2009–10 season , Bayern hired Dutch manager Louis van Gaal , and Dutch forward Arjen Robben joined Bayern. Robben, alongside Ribéry, would go on to shape Bayern's playstyle of attacking over the wings for the next ten years. The press quickly dubbed the duo "Robbery". In addition, David Alaba and Thomas Müller were promoted to the first team. Van Gaal stated: "With me, Müller always plays", which has become a much-referenced phrase over the years. On the pitch, Bayern had its most successful season since 2001, securing the domestic double and losing only in the final of the Champions League to Inter Milan. Van Gaal was fired in April 2011 as Bayern was trailing in the league and eliminated in the first knockout round of the Champions League , again by Inter. Heynckes returned for his second permanent spell in the 2011–12 season. Although the club had signed Manuel Neuer , ending Bayern's quest for an adequate substitute for Kahn, and Jérôme Boateng for the season, Bayern remained without a title for a second consecutive season, coming in second to Borussia Dortmund in the league and the cup. The Champions League final was held at the Allianz Arena and Bayern reached the final in their home stadium but lost to Chelsea on penalties. Bayern Munich went on to win all titles in 2012–13 . They set various Bundesliga records along the way, becoming the first German team to win the treble . Bayern finished the Bundesliga on 91 points, only eleven points shy of a perfect season. In what was Bayern's third Champions League final appearance within four years, they beat Borussia Dortmund 2–1. A week later, they completed the treble by winning the DFB-Pokal final against Stuttgart . During the season, the club announced that they would hire Pep Guardiola as coach for the 2013–14 season . Originally, the club presented this as Heynckes retiring on the expiration of his contract, but Uli Hoeneß later admitted that it was not Heynckes's decision to leave Bayern at the end of the season. It was actually forced by the club's desire to appoint Guardiola. Guardiola's first season started off well, with Bayern extending a streak of undefeated league matches from the previous season to 53 matches. An eventual loss to Augsburg came two match days after Bayern had won the league title. During the season, Bayern had also claimed two other titles, the FIFA Club World Cup and the UEFA Super Cup , the latter being the last major trophy the club had not yet won. Bayern also won the cup to complete their tenth domestic double, but lost in the semi-final of the Champions League to Real Madrid . Off the pitch, Bayern's president Uli Hoeneß was convicted of tax evasion in March 2014, and sentenced to 3 + 1 ⁄ 2 years in prison. Hoeneß resigned the next day, and vice-president Karl Hopfner was elected president in May. Under Guardiola, Bayern also won the Bundesliga in 2014–15 and 2015–16 , including another double in 2015–16, but did not advance past the semi-finals in the Champions League. Although the club's leadership tried to convince Guardiola to stay, the coach decided not to extend his three-year contract. Carlo Ancelotti was hired as successor to Guardiola. Off the pitch, Uli Hoeneß had been released early from prison and reelected as president in November 2016. Under Ancelotti, Bayern won a fifth consecutive league title. In July 2017, Bayern announced that 1860 Munich would leave the Allianz Arena for good as the club had been relegated to the fourth-tier Regionalliga . During the 2017–18 season , Bayern's performances were perceived to be increasingly lacklustre, and Ancelotti was sacked after a 3–0 loss to Paris St. Germain in the Champions League , early in his second season. Willy Sagnol took over as interim manager for a week, before Jupp Heynckes was announced as coach for the rest of the season, in what was his fourth spell at the club. During the season, the club urged Heynckes—even publicly—to extend his contract, but Heynckes, aged 73, stayed firm that he would retire after the season. Heynckes led the club to another championship, but lost the cup final against Eintracht Frankfurt . Eintracht's coach, Niko Kovač , was named Heynckes' successor at Bayern. In Kovač's first season at Bayern, the club was eliminated by Liverpool in the round of 16 in the Champions League, the first time since 2011 that Bayern did not reach the quarter-final. Bayern won their seventh straight Bundesliga title, however, as they finished two points above Dortmund with 78 points. This Bundesliga title was Ribéry's ninth and Robben's eighth. A week later, Bayern defeated RB Leipzig 3–0 in the 2019 DFB-Pokal final to win their 19th German Cup and to complete their 12th domestic double. ^ Bayern Magazin: 1/59, pages: 16–21, 11 August 2007 (in German) ^ "Fussballdaten – Zahlen, Texte, Bilder" (in German). fussballdaten.de. 17 May 2008. Archived from the original on 26 May 2008 . Retrieved 15 July 2008 . ^ "Oliver Kahn Retires – DW – 05/17/2008" . Deutsche Welle. Archived from the original on 11 April 2023 . Retrieved 11 April 2023 . ^ "Jürgen Klinsmann to succeed Hitzfeld at Bayern" . The official FC Bayern Munich website. 11 January 2008. Archived from the original on 21 December 2008 . Retrieved 11 January 2008 . ^ "End of a Brief Era: German Club Bayern Munich Sacks Coach Klinsmann" . Der Spiegel . 27 April 2009. Archived from the original on 4 April 2015 . Retrieved 1 February 2015 . ^ "Bayern Munich name Louis van Gaal as their new manager" . The Guardian . 13 May 2009. ISSN 0261-3077 . Archived from the original on 13 April 2023 . Retrieved 11 April 2023 . ^ "Bayern sign Dutch winger Robben from Real" . Reuters . 28 August 2009. Archived from the original on 11 March 2023 . Retrieved 11 April 2023 . ^ "Müller deutet wieder Räume" . Der Spiegel (in German). 20 April 2019. Archived from the original on 28 April 2019 . Retrieved 20 April 2019 . ^ "Bayern win Cup to clinch Double" . BBC. 15 May 2010. Archived from the original on 18 May 2010 . Retrieved 15 May 2010 . ^ "Champions League Final 2010 Statistics" . WhoScored.com. Archived from the original on 4 March 2011. ^ "Louis van Gaal sacked by Bayern Munich" . The Guardian . Press Association. 10 April 2011. ISSN 0261-3077 . Archived from the original on 6 July 2023 . Retrieved 27 March 2023 . ^ "Dortmund do the double – DW – 05/12/2012" . Deutsche Welle. Archived from the original on 27 March 2023 . Retrieved 27 March 2023 . ^ Smyth, Rob (19 May 2012). "Champions League final: Bayern Munich v Chelsea – as it happened | Rob Smyth" . The Guardian . ISSN 0261-3077 . Archived from the original on 27 March 2023 . Retrieved 27 March 2023 . ^ "Records fall as Bayern seal stunning title triumph" . 6 April 2013. Archived from the original on 28 September 2014 . Retrieved 28 September 2014 . ^ Haslam, Andrew (25 May 2013). "Robben ends Bayern's run of final misery" . UEFA. Archived from the original on 7 October 2014 . Retrieved 28 September 2014 . ^ "Bayern win cup and treble – DW – 06/01/2013" . dw.com . Archived from the original on 4 April 2023 . Retrieved 4 June 2023 . ^ "Guardiola to take charge at Bayern | FC Bayern Munich" . bundesliga.com – the official Bundesliga website . Retrieved 20 May 2023 . ^ "Augsburg inflict first league defeat on Bayern Munich" . Eurosport . 5 April 2014. Archived from the original on 7 April 2014. ^ "Super Bayern crowned club world champions" . Archived from the original on 12 February 2015. ^ "Bayern tackle Chelsea in Prague Super Cup" . UEFA. 26 May 2013. Archived from the original on 10 June 2013 . Retrieved 13 June 2013 . ^ "Bayern beats Dortmund 2–0 in German Cup final" . USA Today . 17 May 2014. Archived from the original on 18 May 2014 . Retrieved 18 May 2014 . ^ "Bayern Munich 0 Real Madrid 4; agg 0–5: match report" . The Daily Telegraph . Archived from the original on 11 April 2023 . Retrieved 11 April 2023 . ^ Oltermann, Philip (13 March 2014). "Uli Hoeness sentenced to three-and-a-half years in jail for tax evasion" . The Guardian . ISSN 0261-3077 . Archived from the original on 11 April 2023 . Retrieved 11 April 2023 . ^ "Bayern chief defends club's transfer policy" . ESPN.com . 11 September 2014 . Retrieved 12 January 2025 . Hopfner, who has worked at Bayern in various positions since 1983, succeeded Uli Hoeness as president after he was imprisoned following his tax evasion trial earlier this year. The 62-year-old was elected into the role in May, and on Monday he was chosen as the club's new chairman of the supervisory board until the end of 2015. ^ "Bayern Munich 0–0 Borussia Dortmund" . BBC. 21 May 2016. Archived from the original on 5 October 2017. ^ "Pep Guardiola to leave Bayern Munich – DW – 12/20/2015" . Deutsche Welle. Archived from the original on 27 March 2023 . Retrieved 27 March 2023 . ^ "Bayern Munich confirm Carlo Ancelotti will replace Pep Guardiola" . Sky Sports . 20 December 2015. Archived from the original on 24 May 2016. ^ "Released From Prison, Former Bayern Munich President Is Re-elected" . The New York Times . Associated Press. 26 November 2016. ISSN 0362-4331 . Archived from the original on 11 April 2023 . Retrieved 11 April 2023 . ^ "Bayern Munich seal Bundesliga title as Leipzig and Dortmund draw" . ESPN FC . 29 April 2017. Archived from the original on 8 May 2017. ^ "Bayern cancel 1860 Munich's stadium deal" . ESPN. 12 July 2017. Archived from the original on 4 April 2023 . Retrieved 11 April 2023 . ^ "FC Bayern part company with Carlo Ancelotti" . fcbayern.com . 28 September 2017. Archived from the original on 28 September 2017 . Retrieved 28 September 2017 . ^ "Bayern Munich appoint Heynckes as coach to end of season" . Reuters . 6 October 2017. Archived from the original on 27 March 2023 . Retrieved 27 March 2023 . ^ "Retired Bayern Munich mastermind Jupp Heynckes named Germany's Coach of the Year 2017/18" . bundesliga.com – the official Bundesliga website . Retrieved 11 April 2023 . ^ "Bayern Munich 1–3 Eintracht Frankfurt: Bayern stunned in DFB-Pokal final" . Sky Sports . Archived from the original on 27 March 2023 . Retrieved 27 March 2023 . ^ "Champions League: Bayern bow out after Sadio Mane magic – DW – 03/13/2019" . Deutsche Welle. Archived from the original on 27 March 2023 . Retrieved 27 March 2023 . ^ "Bayern Munich crowned Bundesliga champion as Robben and Ribery bid farewell" . CNN. 18 May 2019. Archived from the original on 11 April 2023 . Retrieved 11 April 2023 . ^ "Robert Lewandowski hits brace as Bayern Munich beat RB Leipzig in DFB Cup final to seal the double" . bundesliga.com – the official Bundesliga website . Archived from the original on 25 May 2019 . Retrieved 27 March 2023 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Return to German coaches (2019–2024)

Return to German coaches (2019–2024) [ edit ] Kovač was sacked after a 5–1 loss to Eintracht Frankfurt, with Hansi Flick being promoted to interim manager in November 2019. After a satisfying spell as interim, Bayern announced a month later that Flick would remain in charge. Under Flick, the club won the league , having played the most successful second half of a Bundesliga season in history, winning all but one match, which was drawn. The club also won the cup , completing the club's 13th domestic double. In the Champions League , Bayern reached their first final since 2013, having beaten Barcelona 8–2 in the quarter-finals. Bayern defeated Paris Saint-Germain 1–0 in the final , which was held in Lisbon behind closed doors due to the COVID-19 pandemic . Former PSG player Kingsley Coman scored the only goal of the match. Bayern became the second European club after Barcelona to complete the seasonal treble in two different seasons. Bayern started the 2020–21 season by winning the UEFA Super Cup for the second time in their history. Bayern also won the FIFA Club World Cup , defeating Mexican team Tigres 1–0 in the final. Bayern became the second club to win the sextuple , after Barcelona did so in 2009. The club also won its ninth Bundesliga title in a row. During the season, Robert Lewandowski broke Gerd Müller 's record for most goals scored in a Bundesliga season, having scored 41 times in 29 matches. Flick left at the end of the 2020–21 season to manage the Germany national team, and at Flick's request, RB Leipzig manager Julian Nagelsmann succeeded him. According to several news reports, Bayern paid Leipzig €25m as compensation for Nagelsmann's services, a world record for a manager. Under Nagelsmann, Bayern won its 10th consecutive Bundesliga title. In March 2023, Nagelsmann was released by Bayern and replaced with Thomas Tuchel , who led the club to a record eleventh consecutive title , after winning a close title race with Borussia Dortmund . In August 2023, Bayern broke the German transfer record again, signing England captain and all-time leading goalscorer Harry Kane from Tottenham Hotspur for a reported fee of €110m. In February 2024, Bayern and Tuchel announced the end of their cooperation after the end of the season. The 2023–24 Bundesliga was the first season in a decade Bayern Munich did not win the Bundesliga, losing it to Bayer Leverkusen . ^ "Niko Kovac leaves Bayern Munich after Eintracht Frankfurt thrashing" . The Guardian . 3 November 2019. Archived from the original on 12 November 2020 . Retrieved 4 November 2019 . ^ "FC Bayern and head coach Niko Kovac part company" . fcbayern.com . Bayern Munich. 3 November 2019. Archived from the original on 3 November 2019 . Retrieved 3 November 2019 . ^ "Flick to remain FC Bayern head coach until end of season" . fcbayern.com . Bayern Munich. 22 December 2019. Archived from the original on 22 December 2019 . Retrieved 26 December 2019 . ^ "Champions Bayern Munich ease to victory on final day" . Eurosport . 24 June 2020. Archived from the original on 3 December 2022 . Retrieved 15 February 2023 . ^ "German Cup final: Irresistible Bayern secure domestic double – DW – 07/04/2020" . Deutsche Welle. Archived from the original on 15 February 2023 . Retrieved 15 February 2023 . ^ Murray, Scott (14 August 2020). "Barcelona 2–8 Bayern Munich: Champions League quarter-final – as it happened" . The Guardian . ISSN 0261-3077 . Archived from the original on 18 April 2023 . Retrieved 11 April 2023 . ^ "Bayern Munich defeats Paris Saint-Germain in UEFA Champions League final on Kingsley Coman's goal" . USA Today . Archived from the original on 27 March 2023 . Retrieved 27 March 2023 . ^ "Who's won the treble? Bayern double up" . UEFA. 4 September 2020. Archived from the original on 17 April 2021 . Retrieved 8 October 2020 . ^ "Pavard completes sextuple for dominant Bayern" . FIFA . 11 February 2021. Archived from the original on 11 February 2021 . Retrieved 12 February 2021 . ^ Ben Church and George Ramsay. "Bayern Munich wins ninth consecutive Bundesliga title" . CNN. Archived from the original on 15 July 2022 . Retrieved 15 July 2022 . ^ "Lewandowski scores 41st Bundesliga goal of season to break Müller's record" . The Guardian . 22 May 2021. Archived from the original on 29 October 2021 . Retrieved 22 May 2021 . ^ "Bayern appoint Nagelsmann as new manager" . ESPN. 27 April 2021. Archived from the original on 6 June 2021 . Retrieved 6 June 2021 . ^ "Germany hire Treble-winning Flick as manager" . ESPN. 25 May 2021. Archived from the original on 6 June 2021 . Retrieved 6 June 2021 . ^ Falk, Christian (27 April 2021). "Julian Nagelsmann leaving RB Leipzig to become Bayern Munich manager" . The Guardian . Archived from the original on 24 October 2021 . Retrieved 6 June 2021 . ^ Ben Church. "Bayern Munich wins 10th consecutive Bundesliga title after beating Borussia Dortmund" . CNN. Archived from the original on 15 July 2022 . Retrieved 15 July 2022 . ^ "FC Bayern and Julian Nagelsmann part company – Thomas Tuchel new head coach" . FC Bayern Munich. 24 March 2023. Archived from the original on 24 March 2023 . Retrieved 24 March 2023 . ^ Ronald, Issy (27 May 2023). "Bayern Munich wins 11th straight Bundesliga title after Borussia Dortmund draws on dramatic final day" . CNN. Archived from the original on 28 May 2023 . Retrieved 28 May 2023 . ^ "FC Bayern sign Harry Kane" . FC Bayern Munich. 12 August 2023. Archived from the original on 12 August 2023 . Retrieved 12 August 2023 . ^ "FC Bayern and Thomas Tuchel to end their working relationship in the summer" . fcbayern.com . FC Bayern München . Retrieved 9 September 2024 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Vincent Kompany era (2024–present)

Vincent Kompany era (2024–present) [ edit ] On 29 May 2024, Vincent Kompany was confirmed as the new head coach of Bayern and received a three-year contract. Bayern started the 2024–25 Bundesliga season with a 3–2 win at VfL Wolfsburg . On 5 May 2025 they won their 34th Bundesliga title after a 2–2 draw between SC Freiburg and Bayer 04 Leverkusen made them champions with two games to spare. ^ "Vincent Kompany named new FC Bayern head coach" . fcbayern.com . FC Bayern München . Retrieved 9 September 2024 . ^ "Bayern 3-2 Wolfsburg (Aug 25, 2024) Game Analysis" . ESPN . Retrieved 5 May 2025 . ^ Salmen, Greg. "Bayern battle past Wolfsburg" . fcbayern.com . FC Bayern München . Retrieved 9 September 2024 .

______________________________________________________________________

## Kits

Kits [ edit ] Wikimedia Commons has media related to FC Bayern München kits (1900–2000) . Wikimedia Commons has media related to FC Bayern München kits (2000–present) . In the original club constitution, Bayern's colours were named as white and blue, but the club played in white shirts with black shorts until 1905 when Bayern joined MSC. MSC decreed that the footballers would have to play in red shorts. Also, the younger players were called red shorts, which were meant as an insult. For most of the club's early history, Bayern had primarily worn white and maroon home kits. In 1968–69 season , Bayern changed to red and blue striped shirts, with blue shorts and socks. Between 1969 and 1973, the team wore a home strip of red and white striped shirts with either red or white shorts and red socks. In the 1973–74 season , the team switched to an all-white kit featuring single vertical red and blue stripes on the shirt. From 1974 onwards, Bayern has mostly worn an all-red home kit with white trim. Bayern revived the red and blue striped colour scheme between 1995 and 1997. In 1997, blue was the dominant colour for the first time when Adidas released an all navy blue home kit with a red chest band. In 1999, Bayern returned to a predominantly red kit, which featured blue sleeves, and, in 2000, the club released a traditional all-red kit with white trim to be worn for Champions League matches. Bayern also wore a Rotwein -coloured home kit in Bundesliga matches between 2001 and 2003, and during the 2006–07 Champions League campaign, in reference to their first-choice colours prior to the late 1960s. The club's away kit has had a wide range of colours, including white, black, blue, and gold-green. Bayern also features a distinct international kit. During the 2013–14 season , Bayern used an all-red home kit with a Bavarian flag diamond watermark pattern, a Lederhosen -inspired white and black Oktoberfest away kit, and an all-navy blue international kit. In the 1980s and 1990s, Bayern used a special away kit when playing at Kaiserslautern , representing the Brazilian colours blue and yellow, a superstition borne from the fact that the club found it hard to win there. Kit suppliers and shirt sponsors [ edit ] Period Kit manufacturer Shirt sponsor (chest) Shirt sponsor (sleeve) 1964–1971 Palme Trikotfabrik None None 1971–1974 Erima 1974–1978 Adidas Adidas 1978–1981 Magirus Deutz 1981–1984 Iveco Magirus 1984–1989 Commodore 1989–2002 Opel 2002–2017 Deutsche Telekom 2017–2018 Hamad Airport 2018–2023 Qatar Airways 2023–2024 Audi 2024–present Allianz Kit deals [ edit ] Kit supplier Period Latest contract announcement Current contract duration Value Notes Adidas 1974–present 28 April 2015 2015–2030 (15 years) Total € 900 million ( € 60 million per year) ^ Cite error: The named reference fcbbook1stch was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ Schulze-Marmeling, Dietrich (2003). Die Bayern. Die Geschichte des deutschen Rekordmeisters (in German). Die Werkstatt. p. 581. ISBN 3-89533-426-X . ^ "Die vollständige Trikot-Historie des FC Bayern München" . stickerfreak (in German). Archived from the original on 27 November 2013 . Retrieved 12 May 2014 . ^ "Beer-ern Munich: European Champs Get Oktoberfest Uniforms" . Der Spiegel . 2 September 2013. Archived from the original on 28 March 2014 . Retrieved 10 May 2014 . ^ "These Bayern kits made history" . FC Bayern Munich . 27 February 2024 . Retrieved 12 May 2025 . ^ "1. FC Kaiserslautern versus FC Bayern Munich – all games since 1963" . Weltfussball.de . Archived from the original on 4 April 2012 . Retrieved 15 May 2009 . ^ "FC Bayern München Retro Kit Released" . footyheadlines.com. Archived from the original on 10 February 2022 . Retrieved 23 December 2020 . ^ "Bayern München Sign Record-Breaking Adidas Kit Deal" . Archived from the original on 24 June 2021 . Retrieved 22 May 2021 . ^ Quinn, Phillip (29 April 2015). "Bayern's new kit deal with Adidas is huge" . Bavarian Football Works . Archived from the original on 24 April 2019 . Retrieved 22 April 2019 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Kit suppliers and shirt sponsors

Kit suppliers and shirt sponsors [ edit ] Period Kit manufacturer Shirt sponsor (chest) Shirt sponsor (sleeve) 1964–1971 Palme Trikotfabrik None None 1971–1974 Erima 1974–1978 Adidas Adidas 1978–1981 Magirus Deutz 1981–1984 Iveco Magirus 1984–1989 Commodore 1989–2002 Opel 2002–2017 Deutsche Telekom 2017–2018 Hamad Airport 2018–2023 Qatar Airways 2023–2024 Audi 2024–present Allianz ^ "FC Bayern München Retro Kit Released" . footyheadlines.com. Archived from the original on 10 February 2022 . Retrieved 23 December 2020 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Kit deals

Kit deals [ edit ] Kit supplier Period Latest contract announcement Current contract duration Value Notes Adidas 1974–present 28 April 2015 2015–2030 (15 years) Total € 900 million ( € 60 million per year) ^ "Bayern München Sign Record-Breaking Adidas Kit Deal" . Archived from the original on 24 June 2021 . Retrieved 22 May 2021 . ^ Quinn, Phillip (29 April 2015). "Bayern's new kit deal with Adidas is huge" . Bavarian Football Works . Archived from the original on 24 April 2019 . Retrieved 22 April 2019 .

______________________________________________________________________

## Crest

Crest [ edit ] Flag of Bavaria Bayern's crest has changed several times. Originally it consisted of the stylised letters F, C, B, M, which were woven into one symbol. The original crest was blue. The colours of Bavaria were included for the first time in 1954. The crest from 1919 to 1924 denotes "Bayern FA", whereby "FA" stands for Fußball-Abteilung , i.e., Football Department; Bayern then was integrated into TSV Jahn Munich and constituted its football department. [ citation needed ] The modern version of the crest has changed from the 1954 version in several steps. While the crest consisted of a single colour only for most of the time, namely blue or red, the current crest is blue, red, and white. It has the colours of Bavaria in its centre, and FC Bayern München is written in white on a red ring enclosing the Bavarian colours. Bayern Munich logo history 1901 1902–1906 1906–1919 1919–1924 1925–1954 1954–1996 1996–2002 2002–2017 2017–2024 2024–present ^ a b Cite error: The named reference crestcolor was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ Raimund Simmet, Dietrich (2021). Alle Bayern-Trikots - von 1900 bis heute (in German). Die Werkstatt. p. 22. ISBN 978-3-7307-0561-2 . Cite error: There are <ref group=lower-alpha> tags or {{efn}} templates on this page, but the references will not show without a {{reflist|group=lower-alpha}} template or {{notelist}} template (see the help page ).

______________________________________________________________________

## Stadiums

Stadiums [ edit ] Model of Bayern's first stadium, their home from 1906 to 1924 Bayern played its first training games at the Schyrenplatz in the centre of Munich . The first official games were held on the Theresienwiese . In 1901, Bayern moved to a field of its own, located in Schwabing at the Clemensstraße . After joining the Münchner Sport-Club (MSC) in 1906, Bayern moved in May 1907 to MSC's ground at the Leopoldstraße . As the crowds gathering for Bayern's home games increased at the beginning of the 1920s, Bayern had to switch to various other premises in Munich. From 1925, Bayern shared the Grünwalder Stadion with 1860 Munich . Until the Second World War, the stadium was owned by 1860 Munich, and is still colloquially known as Sechz'ger ("Sixties") Stadium. It was destroyed during the war, and efforts to rebuild it resulted in a patchwork. Bayern's record crowd at the Grünwalder Stadion is reported as more than 50,000 in the home game against 1. FC Nürnberg in the 1961–62 season. In the Bundesliga era, the stadium had a maximum capacity of 44,000, which was reached on several occasions, but the capacity has since been reduced to 21,272. As was the case at most of this period's stadiums, the vast majority of the stadium was given over to terracing. Since 1995, the second teams and youth teams of both clubs played in the stadium. The Olympiastadion , home of Bayern Munich from 1972 to 2005 For the 1972 Summer Olympics , the city of Munich built the Olympiastadion . The stadium, renowned for its architecture, was inaugurated in the last Bundesliga match of the 1971–72 season. The match drew a capacity crowd of 79,000, a total which was reached again on numerous occasions. In its early days, the stadium was considered one of the foremost stadiums in the world, and played host to numerous major finals, such as that of the 1974 FIFA World Cup . In the following years, the stadium underwent several modifications, such as an increase in seating space from approximately 50 per cent to 66 per cent. Eventually, the stadium had a capacity of 63,000 for national matches and 59,000 for international occasions such as European Cup competitions. Many people, however, began to feel that the stadium was too cold in winter, with half the audience exposed to the weather due to lack of cover. A further complaint was the distance between the spectators and the pitch, betraying the stadium's track and field heritage. Renovation proved impossible, as the architect Günther Behnisch vetoed major modifications of the stadium. Allianz Arena is lit in red for Bayern home games. After much discussion, the city of Munich, the state of Bavaria , Bayern Munich and 1860 Munich jointly decided at the end of 2000 to build a new stadium. While Bayern had wanted a purpose-built football stadium for several years, the awarding of the 2006 FIFA World Cup to Germany stimulated the discussion as the Olympiastadion no longer met the FIFA criteria to host a World Cup game. Located on the northern outskirts of Munich, the Allianz Arena has been in use since the beginning of the 2005–06 season. Since August 2012, 2,000 more seats were added in the last row of the top tier, increasing the capacity to 71,000. In January 2015, a proposal to increase the capacity was approved by the city council, with the Allianz Arena holding a capacity of 75,000 (70,000 in Champions League). The stadium's most prominent feature is the translucent outer layer, which can be illuminated in different colours for effects. Red lighting is used for Bayern home games and white for Germany national team home games. In May 2012, Bayern opened a museum about its history, FC Bayern Erlebniswelt, inside the Allianz Arena. ^ Schulze-Marmeling, Dietrich (2003). Die Bayern. Die Geschichte des deutschen Rekordmeisters (in German). Die Werkstatt. pp. 451– 452. ISBN 3-89533-426-X . ^ Schulze-Marmeling, Dietrich (2003). Die Bayern. Die Geschichte des deutschen Rekordmeisters (in German). Die Werkstatt. p. 55. ISBN 3-89533-426-X . ^ Schulze-Marmeling, Dietrich (2003). Die Bayern. Die Geschichte des deutschen Rekordmeisters (in German). Die Werkstatt. pp. 453– 455. ISBN 3-89533-426-X . ^ Schulze-Marmeling, Dietrich (2003). Die Bayern. Die Geschichte des deutschen Rekordmeisters (in German). Die Werkstatt. p. 122. ISBN 3-89533-426-X . ^ "Das Grünwalder Stadion" (in German). FC Bayern Munich Official Website. 2005. Archived from the original on 21 December 2008 . Retrieved 11 August 2008 . ^ "Sportliche Höhepunkte in der Geschichte des Sechz'gers" (in German). Freunde des Sechz'ger Stadions e. V. 2007. Archived from the original on 22 September 2008 . Retrieved 14 July 2008 . ^ Manfred Brocks .... (1985). Monumente der Welt (in German). Harenberg. pp. 286– 287. ISBN 3-88379-035-4 . ^ "The Olympic Stadium – Event Highlights" . Olympiapark München GmbH. 31 December 2007. Archived from the original on 7 February 2009 . Retrieved 12 July 2008 . ^ a b Schulze-Marmeling, Dietrich (2003). Die Bayern. Die Geschichte des deutschen Rekordmeisters (in German). Die Werkstatt. pp. 463– 469. ISBN 3-89533-426-X . ^ "Zuschauer-Kapazität der Allianz Arena erhöht" [Allianz Arena capacity increased] (in German). FC Bayern Munich. 29 August 2012. Archived from the original on 9 November 2014 . Retrieved 28 September 2014 . ^ "AB SOFORT 75.000 FANS BEI BUNDESLIGA-HEIMSPIELEN" [From now 75000 fans at the Bundesliga games] (in German). FC Bayern Munich. 13 January 2015. Archived from the original on 13 January 2015 . Retrieved 13 January 2015 . ^ Schulze-Marmeling, Dietrich (2003). Die Bayern. Die Geschichte des deutschen Rekordmeisters (in German). Die Werkstatt. pp. 465– 469. ISBN 3-89533-426-X . ^ "FCB Erlebniswelt öffnet ihre Pforten" [FCB Erlebniswelt opens its doors] (in German). FC Bayern Munich. 24 May 2012. Archived from the original on 29 November 2014 . Retrieved 28 September 2014 .

______________________________________________________________________

## Supporters

Supporters [ edit ] A part of the "Südkurve" – the usual spot of the ultra-scene at Allianz Arena At the 2018 annual general meeting, the Bayern board reported that the club had 291,000 official members and 4,433 officially registered fan clubs with over 390,000 members. This made the club the largest fan membership club in the world. Bayern has an average of 75,000 fans at the Allianz Arena which is at 100 per cent capacity level. Every Bundesliga game has been sold-out for years. Bayern's away games have also been sold out for many years. According to a study by Sport+Markt from 2010, Bayern is the fifth-most popular football club in Europe with 20.7 million supporters, ranking first of all German clubs. The club's most prominent ultra groups are Schickeria München , Inferno Bavaria , Red Munichs '89 , Südkurve '73 , Munichmaniacs 1996 , Red Angels , and Red Sharks . The ultras scene of Bayern Munch has been recognised for certain groups taking stance against right-wing extremism, racism and homophobia, and in 2014 the group Schickeria München received the Julius Hirsch Award by the DFB for its commitment against antisemitism and discrimination. Stern des Südens is the song which fans sing at FCB home games. In the 1990s, they also used to sing FC Bayern, Forever Number One . Another notable song is Mia San Mia ( Bavarian for "we are who we are"), which is a well-known motto of the club as well. A renowned catchphrase for the team is " Packmas ", which is a Bavarian phrase for the German " Packen wir es ", which means "let's do it". The club's mascot is an anthropomorphic bear named "Berni" since 2004. The club also has had a number of high-profile supporters, among them Pope Benedict XVI , Boris Becker , Wladimir Klitschko , Horst Seehofer and Edmund Stoiber , former Minister-President of Bavaria. ^ "FC Bayern rests on 'very solid foundations' " . FC Bayern Munich . 15 November 2019. Archived from the original on 27 October 2021 . Retrieved 16 November 2019 . ^ Best supported club in the world. "Why Bayern Munich are the best-supported club in world football" Archived 11 February 2018 at the Wayback Machine , bundesliga.com , January 2018. Retrieved 10 February 2018. ^ "Allianz Arena tops the lot!" . FC Bayern Munich . 23 March 2017. Archived from the original on 10 February 2018 . Retrieved 10 February 2018 . ^ "Bundesliga Attendance" . weltfussball.de. 2008. Archived from the original on 7 December 2008 . Retrieved 7 July 2008 . ^ "Sport+Markt Football Top 20 2010" (PDF) (in German). Sport+Markt. 9 September 2010. Archived from the original (PDF) on 23 September 2010 . Retrieved 10 September 2010 . ^ Abendzeitung, Germany (13 April 2013). "FC Bayern: Gegen Nazis und Rassismus – FC Bayern – Abendzeitung München" . abendzeitung-muenchen.de . Archived from the original on 6 December 2014. ^ Bitz, Xaver (14 June 2016). "Südkurve des FC Bayern mit klaren Botschaften gegen rechte Hooligans" . tz.de (in German). Archived from the original on 4 March 2016 . Retrieved 3 July 2016 . ^ "Fußball: Das Phänomen Ultras" . Stern . Archived from the original on 4 December 2014. ^ "Schickeria"-Fan: "Wir sind nicht die Stimmungsclowns der Logen" . DFB – Deutscher Fußball-Bund e. V . Archived from the original on 5 March 2017. ^ "Schickeria wird salonfähig" . DIE WELT . 28 August 2014. Archived from the original on 4 March 2016. ^ "FC Bayern – Ultra-Fan-Gruppe Schickeria" . Süddeutsche.de . Archived from the original on 4 December 2014. ^ "⚽️ Ausgezeichnet: Münchner Ultras erhalten Julius-Hirsch-Preis – Fußball-News auf Sportbuzzer.de" . sportbuzzer.de . 14 October 2014. Archived from the original on 5 December 2014. ^ "Fanlieder" (in German). Berliner Bajuwaren (Bayern Fanclub). 2008. Archived from the original on 21 December 2008 . Retrieved 17 July 2008 . ^ "Mia san Mia: What does Bayern Munich's club motto mean?" . bundesliga.com . 2020. Archived from the original on 15 October 2020 . Retrieved 11 October 2020 . ^ "Bayern Munich. Explaining the Mia San Mia phenomenon" . DW . 2 October 2017. Archived from the original on 2 May 2018 . Retrieved 2 May 2018 . ^ "#Packmas is Bavarian for the German "Packen wir es", which means "Let's do it" " . @FCBayernEN . 21 May 2016. Archived from the original on 8 March 2021 . Retrieved 2 May 2018 . ^ "Berni: Mascot" . FC Bayern Munich . Archived from the original on 12 October 2020 . Retrieved 5 October 2020 . ^ "Papal trivia: 10 things you didn't know about Pope Benedict XVI" . news.com.au . 18 July 2008. Archived from the original on 6 March 2012 . Retrieved 2 November 2011 . ^ "Prominente Fans des FC Bayern München" . TZ . 10 May 2010. Archived from the original on 3 December 2013 . Retrieved 9 August 2011 . Cite error: There are <ref group=lower-alpha> tags or {{efn}} templates on this page, but the references will not show without a {{reflist|group=lower-alpha}} template or {{notelist}} template (see the help page ).

______________________________________________________________________

## Rivalries

Rivalries [ edit ] Main articles: Der Klassiker , Munich derby , and Bavarian football derbies A Munich derby match at the Allianz Arena between Bayern and 1860 Munich in the quarter-final of the 2007–08 DFB-Pokal on 27 February 2008 Borussia Dortmund [ edit ] Bayern–Dortmund are two of the most successful teams in German football, having won a combined total of 26 of the past 31 Bundesliga titles as of the 2023–24 season . The two teams fought closely for the Bundesliga title in the early 2010s, and met in the 2013 UEFA Champions League final . The rivalry between the clubs grew during the 1990s, as Dortmund's stature increased to challenge perennial title favourites Bayern, winning two Bundesliga titles in 1994–95 and 1995–96 . In 1996, Bayern captain Lothar Matthäus accused Germany teammate Andreas Möller of being a 'crybaby', wiping imaginary tears from his face; Möller reacted by slapping Matthäus. At the end of that season, Dortmund won the 1997 UEFA Champions League final which happened to be played at the Olympiastadion , Bayern's home ground. The teams met in the quarter-finals of the next edition of the Champions League, and Dortmund prevailed over two legs thanks to a single goal from Stéphane Chapuisat . That summer, Bayern hired Dortmund's successful coach Ottmar Hitzfeld to work for them. Tempers flared twice during Bayern and Dortmund's second meeting in the 1998–99 Bundesliga , as Bayern goalkeeper Oliver Kahn first attempted a flying kung-fu kick at Chapuisat, and later appeared to bite Heiko Herrlich 's ear. In the early 2000s both clubs remained successful, as Bayern lost one Champions League final ( 1999 ) then won another ( 2001 ) in addition to more domestic success, while Dortmund won the 2001–02 Bundesliga and reached the UEFA Cup final the same year. An angry 2001 league meeting between the pair was notable for ten yellow cards and three red being shown (a Bundesliga record for indiscipline). However, Dortmund soon fell heavily into debt, and a €2m loan from Bayern in 2004 was a major reason for them being saved from bankruptcy . On 19 April 2008, the two sides clashed in the 2008 DFB-Pokal final for the first time that took place in Berlin . Luca Toni opened the scoring after eleven minutes, but Mladen Petric drew Dortmund level in stoppage time, forcing thirty additional minutes. The Italian completed his double in extra time, thus lifting Bayern to cup glory. European Rivals [ edit ] Bayern Munich won 2–1 against Borussia Dortmund to win the 2012–13 UEFA Champions League on 25 May 2013. Amongst Bayern's chief European rivals are FC Barcelona , Real Madrid , AC Milan , and Manchester United . Real Madrid versus Bayern is the match that has historically been played most often in the Champions League/European Cup with 28 matches. Due to Bayern being traditionally hard to beat for Madrid, Madrid supporters often refer to Bayern as the " Bestia negra " ("Black Beast"). Despite the number of duels, Bayern and Real have never met in the final of a Champions League or European Cup. ^ "There's more to Barcelona-Bayern than one 8-2 result; this is a rivalry with a dramatic history" . ESPN . 13 September 2021 . Retrieved 1 December 2024 . ^ "Bayern seek maximum return in Hamburg" . FC Bayern Munich Official Website. 1 September 2007. Archived from the original on 21 December 2008 . Retrieved 15 August 2008 . ^ "Bayern paired with old foes Milan" . 9 March 2007. Archived from the original on 7 December 2008 . Retrieved 15 August 2008 . ^ "Emotion, drama and glory" . FC Bayern Munich Official Website. 2008. Archived from the original on 21 December 2008 . Retrieved 15 August 2008 . ^ "La Bestia Negra: How Bayern's stellar record against Real Madrid can inspire a Champions League upset | Goal.com US" . www.goal.com . 17 April 2012 . Retrieved 22 March 2024 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Borussia Dortmund

Borussia Dortmund [ edit ] Bayern–Dortmund are two of the most successful teams in German football, having won a combined total of 26 of the past 31 Bundesliga titles as of the 2023–24 season . The two teams fought closely for the Bundesliga title in the early 2010s, and met in the 2013 UEFA Champions League final . The rivalry between the clubs grew during the 1990s, as Dortmund's stature increased to challenge perennial title favourites Bayern, winning two Bundesliga titles in 1994–95 and 1995–96 . In 1996, Bayern captain Lothar Matthäus accused Germany teammate Andreas Möller of being a 'crybaby', wiping imaginary tears from his face; Möller reacted by slapping Matthäus. At the end of that season, Dortmund won the 1997 UEFA Champions League final which happened to be played at the Olympiastadion , Bayern's home ground. The teams met in the quarter-finals of the next edition of the Champions League, and Dortmund prevailed over two legs thanks to a single goal from Stéphane Chapuisat . That summer, Bayern hired Dortmund's successful coach Ottmar Hitzfeld to work for them. Tempers flared twice during Bayern and Dortmund's second meeting in the 1998–99 Bundesliga , as Bayern goalkeeper Oliver Kahn first attempted a flying kung-fu kick at Chapuisat, and later appeared to bite Heiko Herrlich 's ear. In the early 2000s both clubs remained successful, as Bayern lost one Champions League final ( 1999 ) then won another ( 2001 ) in addition to more domestic success, while Dortmund won the 2001–02 Bundesliga and reached the UEFA Cup final the same year. An angry 2001 league meeting between the pair was notable for ten yellow cards and three red being shown (a Bundesliga record for indiscipline). However, Dortmund soon fell heavily into debt, and a €2m loan from Bayern in 2004 was a major reason for them being saved from bankruptcy . On 19 April 2008, the two sides clashed in the 2008 DFB-Pokal final for the first time that took place in Berlin . Luca Toni opened the scoring after eleven minutes, but Mladen Petric drew Dortmund level in stoppage time, forcing thirty additional minutes. The Italian completed his double in extra time, thus lifting Bayern to cup glory.

______________________________________________________________________

### European Rivals

European Rivals [ edit ] Bayern Munich won 2–1 against Borussia Dortmund to win the 2012–13 UEFA Champions League on 25 May 2013. Amongst Bayern's chief European rivals are FC Barcelona , Real Madrid , AC Milan , and Manchester United . Real Madrid versus Bayern is the match that has historically been played most often in the Champions League/European Cup with 28 matches. Due to Bayern being traditionally hard to beat for Madrid, Madrid supporters often refer to Bayern as the " Bestia negra " ("Black Beast"). Despite the number of duels, Bayern and Real have never met in the final of a Champions League or European Cup. ^ "There's more to Barcelona-Bayern than one 8-2 result; this is a rivalry with a dramatic history" . ESPN . 13 September 2021 . Retrieved 1 December 2024 . ^ "Bayern seek maximum return in Hamburg" . FC Bayern Munich Official Website. 1 September 2007. Archived from the original on 21 December 2008 . Retrieved 15 August 2008 . ^ "Bayern paired with old foes Milan" . 9 March 2007. Archived from the original on 7 December 2008 . Retrieved 15 August 2008 . ^ "Emotion, drama and glory" . FC Bayern Munich Official Website. 2008. Archived from the original on 21 December 2008 . Retrieved 15 August 2008 . ^ "La Bestia Negra: How Bayern's stellar record against Real Madrid can inspire a Champions League upset | Goal.com US" . www.goal.com . 17 April 2012 . Retrieved 22 March 2024 .

______________________________________________________________________

## Organization and finance

Organization and finance [ edit ] Bayern's former president from 1994 to 2009 and former player Franz Beckenbauer See also: Forbes list of the most valuable sports teams Bayern is mostly led by former club players. From 2016 to 2019, Uli Hoeneß served as the club's president, following Karl Hopfner who had been in office from 2014; Hoeneß had resigned in 2014 after being convicted of tax fraud. Oliver Kahn was chairman of the executive board of the AG. The supervisory board of nine consists mostly of managers of big German corporations. Besides the club's president and the board's chairman, they are Herbert Hainer former CEO of (Adidas), Dr. Herbert Diess chairman of (Volkswagen), Dr. Werner Zedelius senior advisor at (Allianz), Timotheus Höttges CEO of (Deutsche Telekom), Dieter Mayer, Edmund Stoiber , Theodor Weimer CEO of (Deutsche Börse), and Dr. Michael Diederich speaker of the board at (UniCredit Bank). Professional football at Bayern is run by the spin-off organisation FC Bayern München AG . AG is short for Aktiengesellschaft , and Bayern is run like a joint stock company , a company whose stock are not listed on the public stock exchange, but is privately owned. 75 per cent of FC Bayern München AG is owned by the club, the FC Bayern München e. V. ( e. V. is short for eingetragener Verein , which translates into "registered association"). Three German corporations, the sports goods manufacturer Adidas , the automobile company Audi and the financial services group Allianz each hold 8.33 per cent of the shares, 25 per cent in total. Adidas acquired its shares in 2002 for €77 million. The money was designated to help finance the Allianz Arena . In 2009, Audi paid €90 million for their share. The capital was used to repay the loan on the Allianz Arena. And in early 2014, Allianz became the third shareholder of the company acquiring theirs share for €110 million. With the sale, Bayern paid off the remaining debt on the Allianz Arena 16 years ahead of schedule. The Bayern Munich team bus provided by sponsor MAN Bayern's shirt sponsor is Deutsche Telekom . Deutsche Telekom has been Bayern's shirt sponsor since the start of 2002–03 season. The company extended their sponsorship deal in August 2015 until the end of the 2026–27 season. Previous kit sponsors were Adidas (1974–78), Magirus Deutz and Iveco (1978–84), Commodore (1984–89) and Opel (1989–2002). Bayern's kit manufacturer is Adidas, who have been Bayern's kit manufacturer since 1974. The deal with Adidas runs until the end of the 2029–30 season. Bayern is an exception in professional football, having generated profits for 27 consecutive years. Other clubs often report losses, realising transfers via loans, whereas Bayern always uses current assets . In the 2019 edition of the Deloitte Football Money League , Bayern had the fourth-highest revenue in club football, generating revenue of €629.2 million. Bayern had the second-highest commercial revenue in the 2019 Deloitte Football Money League, behind only Real Madrid. Bayern's commercial revenue was €348.7 million (55 per cent of total revenue). In contrast, Bayern's matchday revenue trails other top clubs at €103.8 million (17 per cent of their total revenue). In 2017, Forbes ranks Bayern as the world's fourth-most valuable football club in their annual list , estimating the club's value at €2.5 billion. While other European clubs have mainly marketed to international audiences, Bayern had focused on Germany. Since the 2010s, Bayern have started to focus their marketing more on Asia and the United States . Bayern made summer tours to the United States in 2014 and 2016. Bayern went to China in the summer of 2015 and returned in the summer of 2017, where they also played games in Singapore . In August 2014, Bayern opened an office in New York City as the club wants to strengthen their brand positioning against other top European clubs in the United States. In March 2017, Bayern opened an office in Shanghai , China. ^ "Uli Hoeness resigns as Bayern Munich president after court case" . BBC Sports . 14 March 2014. Archived from the original on 15 March 2014 . Retrieved 15 March 2014 . ^ "Members' club" . FC Bayern Munich. Archived from the original on 25 September 2015. ^ a b "Company" . FC Bayern Munich. Archived from the original on 26 September 2015 . Retrieved 11 July 2021 . ^ "Mitglieder des Aufsichtsrates der FC Bayern München AG gewählt". Bayern Magazin (in German). 61 (11): 14. 2010. ^ "New FC Bayern Munich AG supervisory board" . fcbayern.com. Archived from the original on 6 April 2023 . Retrieved 22 December 2018 . ^ Schulze-Marmeling, Dietrich (2003). Die Bayern. Die Geschichte des deutschen Rekordmeisters (in German). Die Werkstatt. pp. 473– 474. ISBN 3-89533-426-X . ^ "FCB in profit for the 17th year in a row" . FC Bayern Munich Official Website. 27 November 2009. Archived from the original on 4 December 2009 . Retrieved 11 December 2009 . ^ "Allianz acquires stake in FC Bayern München AG" . FC Bayern Munich . 11 February 2014. Archived from the original on 12 February 2018 . Retrieved 28 May 2019 . ^ AG, Deutsche Telekom. "Deutsche Telekom extends partnership with FC Bayern Munich" . telekom.com . Archived from the original on 25 April 2023 . Retrieved 25 April 2023 . ^ "Picture of Uli Hoeneß with Adidas jersey" . FC Bayern Munich Official Website. Archived from the original on 21 December 2008. ^ "Picture of Karl-Heinz Rummenigge with Magirus-Deutz jersey" . FC Bayern Munich Official Website. Archived from the original on 21 December 2008. ^ "Mr Consistency" . FC Bayern Munich Official Website. Archived from the original on 5 May 2009 . Retrieved 28 May 2013 . ^ "Picture of Stefan Effenberg with Opel jersey" . FC Bayern Munich Official Website. Archived from the original on 21 December 2008. ^ Connolly, Eoin (29 April 2015). "Bayern renew Adidas deal to 2030" . Aports Pro . Archived from the original on 26 February 2018 . Retrieved 28 May 2019 . ^ Cite error: The named reference very_solid_foundations was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ "2019 Football Money League" (PDF) . Deloitte.com . January 2019. Archived (PDF) from the original on 25 January 2019 . Retrieved 14 June 2019 . ^ "Bayern Munich on the Forbes Soccer Team Valuations List" . Forbes . 1 June 2017. Archived from the original on 10 February 2018 . Retrieved 10 February 2018 . ^ Bensch, Bob (21 May 2012). "Bayern Munich Second in Brand Value After Champions League Final" . Bloomberg L.P. Archived from the original on 24 May 2012 . Retrieved 21 May 2012 . ^ "Bayern Munich's USA summer tour might be taking them to Vancouver and New York" . ^ "Bayern Munich tour of U.S. exceeded expectations - Karl-Heinz Rummenigge" . ^ "FCB opens New York City office" . FC Bayern Munich . 1 August 2014. Archived from the original on 12 February 2018 . Retrieved 28 May 2019 . ^ "FC Bayern opens China office in Shanghai" . FC Bayern München News . 22 March 2017 . Retrieved 21 March 2024 .

______________________________________________________________________

## Social engagement and charity

Social engagement and charity [ edit ] Bayern has been involved with charitable ventures for a long time, helping other football clubs in financial disarray as well as ordinary people in misery. In the wake of the 2004 Indian Ocean Tsunami the "FC Bayern – Hilfe e. V." was founded, a foundation that aims to concentrate the social engagements of the club. At its inception, this venture was funded with €600,000, raised by officials and players of the club. The money was, amongst other things, used to build a school in Marathenkerny, Sri Lanka , and to rebuild the area of Trincomalee , Sri Lanka. The club has also assisted other sport clubs in financial disarray. The club has supported its local rival 1860 Munich with player transfers at favourable rates and direct money transfers. When St. Pauli threatened to lose its licence for professional football due to financial problems, [ when? ] Bayern met the club for a friendly game, giving all gate receipts to St. Pauli. In 1993, Alexander Zickler transferred from Dynamo Dresden to Bayern for 2.3 Million DM , with many considering the sum to have been a subvention for the financially threatened Dresdeners. In 2003, Bayern provided a €2 Million loan to the nearly bankrupt Borussia Dortmund . In 2009, Mark van Bommel 's home club Fortuna Sittard was in financial distress; Bayern played a charity game at the Dutch club, gifting them gate receipts. In 2013, Bayern played a charity game against financially threatened third division side Hansa Rostock . The game raised about €1 million, securing Hansa's licence. In 2017, Bayern played a benefit match against financial troubled Kickers Offenbach , with all gate receipts going to Kickers Offenbach. Two years later, Bayern played a benefit match against Kaiserslautern. The match was played so Kaiserslautern could secure their licence to play in the German third division. All income from the match went to Kaiserslautern. In March 2020, Bayern, Borussia Dortmund, RB Leipzig and Bayer Leverkusen, the four German UEFA Champions League teams for the 2019–20 season, collectively gave €20 million to Bundesliga and 2. Bundesliga teams that were struggling financially during the COVID-19 pandemic . In mid-2013, Bayern was the first club to give financial support to the Magnus Hirschfeld National Foundation . The foundation researches the living environment LGBT people, and developed an education concept to facilitate unbiased dealing with LGBT themes in football. In 2016, Bayern received the Nine Values Cup, an award of the international children's social programme Football for Friendship . ^ a b "FC Bayern Hilfe e. V." (in German). FC Bayern Munich official website. Archived from the original on 26 October 2008 . Retrieved 20 July 2009 . ^ a b "FC Bayern Hilfe e. V." (in German). FC Bayern Fanclub Hofherrnweiler e. V. Archived from the original on 29 October 2009 . Retrieved 20 July 2009 . ^ Schulze-Marmeling, Dietrich (2003). Die Bayern. Die Geschichte des deutschen Rekordmeisters (in German). Die Werkstatt. p. 449. ISBN 3-89533-426-X . ^ Schulze-Marmeling, Dietrich (2003). Die Bayern. Die Geschichte des deutschen Rekordmeisters (in German). Die Werkstatt. pp. 430– 432. ISBN 3-89533-426-X . ^ Schulze-Marmeling, Dietrich (2003). Die Bayern. Die Geschichte des deutschen Rekordmeisters (in German). Die Werkstatt. pp. 587– 588. ISBN 3-89533-426-X . ^ Holden, Kit (16 May 2012). " 'Everyone will be crossing their fingers for Bayern Munich' – and so they should" . The Independent . Archived from the original on 19 May 2012 . Retrieved 20 May 2012 . ^ "Bayern helped Dortmund avoid bankruptcy with loan" . Sports Illustrated . 6 February 2012. Archived from the original on 6 July 2012 . Retrieved 20 May 2012 . ^ Koylu, Enis (6 February 2012). "Uli Hoeness: Bayern saved Dortmund from bankruptcy with 2 million euro loan" . Goal (website) . Archived from the original on 8 March 2014 . Retrieved 20 May 2012 . ^ "FCB sign off for summer with win in Sittard" . FC Bayern Munich official website. 31 May 2009. Archived from the original on 5 June 2009 . Retrieved 20 July 2009 . ^ "FCB hit four in fund-raiser for stricken Hansa" . FC Bayern Munich. 14 July 2013. Archived from the original on 18 July 2013 . Retrieved 22 July 2013 . ^ "Benefit match: FC Bayern help Kickers Offenbach" . fcbayern.com. Archived from the original on 4 November 2021 . Retrieved 17 December 2018 . ^ "1–1 draw in beneficial match at Kaiserslautern" . fcbayern.com. Archived from the original on 18 August 2021 . Retrieved 3 June 2019 . ^ Veth, Manuel. "Bundesliga Champions League Starters Donate €20 Million To Help With Coronavirus Crisis" . Forbes . Archived from the original on 23 May 2021 . Retrieved 10 August 2020 . ^ "Was Hitzlsperger bewirkt hat" (in German). SZ Online. 5 January 2015. Archived from the original on 5 January 2015 . Retrieved 6 January 2015 . ^ "Football For Friendship: A Uniting Game" . sportindustry.biz . 17 June 2016. Archived from the original on 29 October 2020 . Retrieved 15 November 2020 .

______________________________________________________________________

## Training facility

Training facility [ edit ] Entrance of Bayern Munich Headquarters Bayern Munich headquarters and training facility is called Säbener Straße and it is located in the Untergiesing-Harlaching borough of Munich. The first team and the reserve team train at the facility. There are five grass pitches, two of which have undersoil heating, two artificial grass fields, a beach volleyball court and a multi-functional sports hall. In August 2017, the club's sports complex , FC Bayern Campus , opened at a cost of €70 million. The campus is located north of Munich at Ingolstädter Straße . The campus is 30 hectare and has eight football pitches for youth teams from the U-9s to the U-19s and the women's and girls' teams. The campus also has a 2,500-capacity stadium where the U-17s and the U-19s play their matches. The Allianz Bayern Akademie is located on the campus site, and the academy has 35 apartments for young talents who do not live in the Greater Munich area. The academy building also has offices for youth coaches and staff. ^ "Training ground" . FC Bayern Munich . 10 February 2018. Archived from the original on 10 February 2018 . Retrieved 28 May 2019 . ^ "Training ground" . FC Bayern Munich Official Website. 2008. Archived from the original on 15 August 2008 . Retrieved 14 August 2008 . ^ Gruber, Michael (1 August 2017). "NLZ eröffnet! FC Bayern startet in die Zukunft" . merkur.de (in German). Münchner Merkur . Retrieved 26 November 2024 . ^ "FC Bayern Campus officially inaugurated" . FC Bayern Munich . 21 August 2017. Archived from the original on 4 November 2017 . Retrieved 28 May 2019 .

______________________________________________________________________

## Honours

Honours [ edit ] Main article: List of FC Bayern Munich records and statistics § Honours Bayern is historically the most successful team in German football, as they have won the most championships and the most cups . They are also Germany's most successful team in international competitions, having won fourteen trophies. Bayern is the only club to have won all three major European competitions , to have won three consecutive European Cups and to have won the treble twice, one of which was part of the larger, and more elusive, " sextuple " (2020). The three consecutive European Cup trophies won by Bayern Munich from 1974 to 1976. The one on the far right is the real trophy, given to Bayern permanently. The ones on the left are slightly smaller replicas. Since the club's 30th Bundesliga title, its players are allowed to wear a fifth star on their jerseys. Type Competition Titles Seasons Domestic German Champions / Bundesliga 34 1932 , 1968–69 , 1971–72 , 1972–73 , 1973–74 , 1979–80 , 1980–81 , 1984–85 , 1985–86 , 1986–87 , 1988–89 , 1989–90 , 1993–94 , 1996–97 , 1998–99 , 1999–2000 , 2000–01 , 2002–03 , 2004–05 , 2005–06 , 2007–08 , 2009–10 , 2012–13 , 2013–14 , 2014–15 , 2015–16 , 2016–17 , 2017–18 , 2018–19 , 2019–20 , 2020–21 , 2021–22 , 2022–23 , 2024–25 DFB-Pokal 20 1956–57 , 1965–66 , 1966–67 , 1968–69 , 1970–71 , 1981–82 , 1983–84 , 1985–86 , 1997–98 , 1999–2000 , 2002–03 , 2004–05 , 2005–06 , 2007–08 , 2009–10 , 2012–13 , 2013–14 , 2015–16 , 2018–19 , 2019–20 DFB/DFL-Supercup 10 1987 , 1990 , 2010 , 2012 , 2016 , 2017 , 2018 , 2020 , 2021 , 2022 DFL-Ligapokal 6 1997 , 1998 , 1999 , 2000 , 2004 , 2007 Continental European Cup/UEFA Champions League 6 1973–74 , 1974–75 , 1975–76 , 2000–01 , 2012–13 , 2019–20 UEFA Cup/UEFA Europa League 1 1995–96 UEFA/European Cup Winners' Cup 1 1966–67 UEFA/European Super Cup 2 2013 , 2020 Worldwide FIFA Club World Cup 2 2013 , 2020 Intercontinental Cup 2 1976 , 2001 Source: record s shared record Trebles [ edit ] Bayern Munich has completed all available Trebles (seasonal treble, domestic treble and European treble). Treble Seasonal treble ( Bundesliga , DFB-Pokal , UEFA Champions League ) 2012–13 , 2019–20 European treble ( UEFA Cup Winners' Cup , European Cup , UEFA Cup ) 1966–67 European Cup Winners' Cup , 1973–74 European Cup , 1995–96 UEFA Cup Domestic treble ( Bundesliga , DFB-Pokal , DFL-Ligapokal ) 1999–2000 Sextuple [ edit ] During each calendar year, Bayern Munich only have six trophies available to them. A sextuple consists of going "six for six" in those competitions, which Bayern accomplished in 2020. This rare feat consists of winning the Continental treble in one season, followed by winning each of the three additional competitions, to which the treble gives a club access in the following season. 2020 Sextuple 2019–20 season 2019–20 Bundesliga 2019–20 DFB-Pokal 2019–20 UEFA Champions League 2020–21 season 2020 DFL-Supercup 2020 UEFA Super Cup 2020 FIFA Club World Cup ^ "Why Bayern Munich will wear a fifth star on their shirt" . The official Bundesliga Website. 9 August 2022. Archived from the original on 9 August 2022 . Retrieved 9 August 2022 . ^ "Honours" . FC Bayern Munich . Retrieved 2 February 2024 . ^ "10 most successful teams of all time in Europe" . Sportskeeda . Archived from the original on 8 August 2017 . Retrieved 7 August 2017 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Trebles

Trebles [ edit ] Bayern Munich has completed all available Trebles (seasonal treble, domestic treble and European treble). Treble Seasonal treble ( Bundesliga , DFB-Pokal , UEFA Champions League ) 2012–13 , 2019–20 European treble ( UEFA Cup Winners' Cup , European Cup , UEFA Cup ) 1966–67 European Cup Winners' Cup , 1973–74 European Cup , 1995–96 UEFA Cup Domestic treble ( Bundesliga , DFB-Pokal , DFL-Ligapokal ) 1999–2000 ^ "10 most successful teams of all time in Europe" . Sportskeeda . Archived from the original on 8 August 2017 . Retrieved 7 August 2017 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Sextuple

Sextuple [ edit ] During each calendar year, Bayern Munich only have six trophies available to them. A sextuple consists of going "six for six" in those competitions, which Bayern accomplished in 2020. This rare feat consists of winning the Continental treble in one season, followed by winning each of the three additional competitions, to which the treble gives a club access in the following season. 2020 Sextuple 2019–20 season 2019–20 Bundesliga 2019–20 DFB-Pokal 2019–20 UEFA Champions League 2020–21 season 2020 DFL-Supercup 2020 UEFA Super Cup 2020 FIFA Club World Cup

______________________________________________________________________

## Players

Players [ edit ] Current squad [ edit ] As of 29 May 2025 Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules ; some limited exceptions apply. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. No. Pos. Nation Player 1 GK GER Manuel Neuer ( captain ) 2 DF FRA Dayot Upamecano 3 DF KOR Min-jae Kim 4 DF GER Jonathan Tah 6 MF GER Joshua Kimmich ( 3rd captain ) 7 FW GER Serge Gnabry 8 MF GER Leon Goretzka ( 4th captain ) 9 FW ENG Harry Kane 10 FW GER Leroy Sané 11 FW FRA Kingsley Coman 15 DF ENG Eric Dier 16 MF POR João Palhinha 17 FW FRA Michael Olise 18 GK ISR Daniel Peretz No. Pos. Nation Player 19 DF CAN Alphonso Davies 21 DF JPN Hiroki Itō 22 DF POR Raphaël Guerreiro 23 DF FRA Sacha Boey 24 MF CRO Gabriel Vidović 25 FW GER Thomas Müller ( vice-captain ) 26 GK GER Sven Ulreich 27 MF AUT Konrad Laimer 28 DF GER Tarek Buchmann 40 GK GER Jonas Urbig 42 MF GER Jamal Musiala 44 DF CRO Josip Stanišić 45 MF GER Aleksandar Pavlović Bayern Munich II and Junior Team/Campus [ edit ] As of 4 April 2025 Main articles: FC Bayern Munich II and FC Bayern Munich Junior Team The following players have been called-up to Bayern Munich squad for any official competition match, and some have officially debuted. They are those who have been promoted from the reserve team squad and the youth sector squads also, with whom they regularly play for. The listed numbers are those being officially assigned to players who are taking part during the current season . Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules ; some limited exceptions apply. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. No. Pos. Nation Player 35 GK GER Max Schmitt 36 MF GER Wisdom Mike 37 GK AUS Anthony Pavlešić 41 FW SWE Jonah Kusi-Asare No. Pos. Nation Player 43 MF DEN Jonathan Asp Jensen 46 MF GER Lennart Karl 48 GK GER Leon Klanac Out on loan [ edit ] Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules ; some limited exceptions apply. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. No. Pos. Nation Player — GK GER Alexander Nübel (at VfB Stuttgart until 30 June 2025) — DF SWE Matteo Pérez Vinlöf (at Austria Wien until 30 June 2025) — DF GER Frans Krätzig (at 1. FC Heidenheim until 30 June 2025) — DF MAR Adam Aznou (at Real Valladolid until 30 June 2025) — MF GER Paul Wanner (at 1. FC Heidenheim until 30 June 2025) — MF CRO Lovro Zvonarek (at Sturm Graz until 30 June 2025) — MF GER Maurice Krattenmacher (at SSV Ulm until 30 June 2025) No. Pos. Nation Player — MF GER Noël Aséko (at Hannover 96 until 30 June 2026) — FW GER Gibson Adu (at SpVgg Unterhaching until 30 June 2025) — FW GER Armindo Sieb (at Mainz 05 until 30 June 2026) — FW ESP Bryan Zaragoza (at Osasuna until 30 June 2025) — FW AUS Nestory Irankunda (at Grasshopper Club Zurich until 30 June 2025) — FW GER Arijon Ibrahimović (at Lazio until 30 June 2025) — FW FRA Mathys Tel (at Tottenham Hotspur until 30 June 2025) Retired numbers [ edit ] Main article: List of retired numbers in association football 5 – Franz Beckenbauer , Defender (1964–1977) – posthumous honour 12 – " The twelfth man ", dedication to fans Notable past players [ edit ] Main article: List of FC Bayern Munich players Maier Augenthaler Schwarzenbeck Beckenbauer Breitner Scholl Effenberg Matthäus K. Rummenigge Élber G. Müller The "Greatest Ever" squad chosen by more than 79,901 fans, in 2005. The coach chosen was Ottmar Hitzfeld . At his farewell game, Oliver Kahn was declared honorary captain of Bayern Munich. The players below are part of the Bayern Munich Hall of Fame . 1930s Conrad Heidkamp † ( DF ) 1970s: Franz Beckenbauer † ( DF ) Gerd Müller † ( FW ) Uli Hoeneß ( FW ) Paul Breitner ( MF ) Sepp Maier ( GK ) Hans-Georg Schwarzenbeck ( DF ) Franz Roth ( MF ) 1980s: Karl-Heinz Rummenigge ( FW ) Klaus Augenthaler ( DF ) 1990s: Lothar Matthäus ( MF / DF ) Stefan Effenberg ( MF ) 2000s: Oliver Kahn ( GK ) Mehmet Scholl ( MF ) Bixente Lizarazu ( DF ) Giovane Élber ( FW ) 2010s: Philipp Lahm ( DF ) Bastian Schweinsteiger ( MF ) Captains [ edit ] Source : Years Captain 1965 Adolf Kunstwadl † ( DF ) 1965–1970 Werner Olk ( DF ) 1970–1977 Franz Beckenbauer † ( DF ) 1977–1979 Sepp Maier ( GK ) 1979 Gerd Müller † ( FW ) 1979–1980 Georg Schwarzenbeck ( DF ) 1980–1983 Paul Breitner ( MF ) 1983–1984 Karl-Heinz Rummenigge ( FW ) 1984–1991 Klaus Augenthaler ( DF ) 1991–1994 Raimond Aumann ( GK ) 1994–1997 Lothar Matthäus ( MF / DF ) 1997–1999 Thomas Helmer ( DF ) 1999–2002 Stefan Effenberg ( MF ) 2002–2008 Oliver Kahn ( GK ) 2008–2011 Mark van Bommel ( MF ) 2011–2017 Philipp Lahm ( DF ) 2017– Manuel Neuer ( GK ) ^ "First Team" . FC Bayern München AG. Archived from the original on 30 November 2016 . Retrieved 6 July 2024 . ^ "FC Bayern retire No.5 shirt in honour of Franz Beckenbauer" . fcbayern.com . FC Bayern München. 8 December 2024 . Retrieved 9 December 2024 . ^ The Bundesliga's 12th man: why you hardly ever see Bundesliga players wearing the No.12 shirt Archived 29 April 2021 at the Wayback Machine on Bundesliga website ^ "Fans name greatest Reds of all time" . The official FC Bayern Munich Website. 1 June 2005. Archived from the original on 7 December 2008 . Retrieved 24 November 2007 . ^ "Kahn wird Ehrenspielführer des FCB" (in German). The official FC Bayern Munich Website. 15 August 2008. Archived from the original on 21 December 2008 . Retrieved 2 September 2008 . ^ "Hall of Fame" . FC Bayern Munich . Archived from the original on 22 January 2021 . Retrieved 3 February 2021 . ^ "From Beckenbauer to Kimmich: All of Bayern's Germany captains" .

______________________________________________________________________

### Current squad

Current squad [ edit ] As of 29 May 2025 Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules ; some limited exceptions apply. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. No. Pos. Nation Player 1 GK GER Manuel Neuer ( captain ) 2 DF FRA Dayot Upamecano 3 DF KOR Min-jae Kim 4 DF GER Jonathan Tah 6 MF GER Joshua Kimmich ( 3rd captain ) 7 FW GER Serge Gnabry 8 MF GER Leon Goretzka ( 4th captain ) 9 FW ENG Harry Kane 10 FW GER Leroy Sané 11 FW FRA Kingsley Coman 15 DF ENG Eric Dier 16 MF POR João Palhinha 17 FW FRA Michael Olise 18 GK ISR Daniel Peretz No. Pos. Nation Player 19 DF CAN Alphonso Davies 21 DF JPN Hiroki Itō 22 DF POR Raphaël Guerreiro 23 DF FRA Sacha Boey 24 MF CRO Gabriel Vidović 25 FW GER Thomas Müller ( vice-captain ) 26 GK GER Sven Ulreich 27 MF AUT Konrad Laimer 28 DF GER Tarek Buchmann 40 GK GER Jonas Urbig 42 MF GER Jamal Musiala 44 DF CRO Josip Stanišić 45 MF GER Aleksandar Pavlović ^ "First Team" . FC Bayern München AG. Archived from the original on 30 November 2016 . Retrieved 6 July 2024 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Bayern Munich II and Junior Team/Campus

Bayern Munich II and Junior Team/Campus [ edit ] As of 4 April 2025 Main articles: FC Bayern Munich II and FC Bayern Munich Junior Team The following players have been called-up to Bayern Munich squad for any official competition match, and some have officially debuted. They are those who have been promoted from the reserve team squad and the youth sector squads also, with whom they regularly play for. The listed numbers are those being officially assigned to players who are taking part during the current season . Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules ; some limited exceptions apply. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. No. Pos. Nation Player 35 GK GER Max Schmitt 36 MF GER Wisdom Mike 37 GK AUS Anthony Pavlešić 41 FW SWE Jonah Kusi-Asare No. Pos. Nation Player 43 MF DEN Jonathan Asp Jensen 46 MF GER Lennart Karl 48 GK GER Leon Klanac

______________________________________________________________________

### Out on loan

Out on loan [ edit ] Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules ; some limited exceptions apply. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. No. Pos. Nation Player — GK GER Alexander Nübel (at VfB Stuttgart until 30 June 2025) — DF SWE Matteo Pérez Vinlöf (at Austria Wien until 30 June 2025) — DF GER Frans Krätzig (at 1. FC Heidenheim until 30 June 2025) — DF MAR Adam Aznou (at Real Valladolid until 30 June 2025) — MF GER Paul Wanner (at 1. FC Heidenheim until 30 June 2025) — MF CRO Lovro Zvonarek (at Sturm Graz until 30 June 2025) — MF GER Maurice Krattenmacher (at SSV Ulm until 30 June 2025) No. Pos. Nation Player — MF GER Noël Aséko (at Hannover 96 until 30 June 2026) — FW GER Gibson Adu (at SpVgg Unterhaching until 30 June 2025) — FW GER Armindo Sieb (at Mainz 05 until 30 June 2026) — FW ESP Bryan Zaragoza (at Osasuna until 30 June 2025) — FW AUS Nestory Irankunda (at Grasshopper Club Zurich until 30 June 2025) — FW GER Arijon Ibrahimović (at Lazio until 30 June 2025) — FW FRA Mathys Tel (at Tottenham Hotspur until 30 June 2025)

______________________________________________________________________

### Retired numbers

Retired numbers [ edit ] Main article: List of retired numbers in association football 5 – Franz Beckenbauer , Defender (1964–1977) – posthumous honour 12 – " The twelfth man ", dedication to fans ^ "FC Bayern retire No.5 shirt in honour of Franz Beckenbauer" . fcbayern.com . FC Bayern München. 8 December 2024 . Retrieved 9 December 2024 . ^ The Bundesliga's 12th man: why you hardly ever see Bundesliga players wearing the No.12 shirt Archived 29 April 2021 at the Wayback Machine on Bundesliga website

______________________________________________________________________

### Notable past players

Notable past players [ edit ] Main article: List of FC Bayern Munich players Maier Augenthaler Schwarzenbeck Beckenbauer Breitner Scholl Effenberg Matthäus K. Rummenigge Élber G. Müller The "Greatest Ever" squad chosen by more than 79,901 fans, in 2005. The coach chosen was Ottmar Hitzfeld . At his farewell game, Oliver Kahn was declared honorary captain of Bayern Munich. The players below are part of the Bayern Munich Hall of Fame . 1930s Conrad Heidkamp † ( DF ) 1970s: Franz Beckenbauer † ( DF ) Gerd Müller † ( FW ) Uli Hoeneß ( FW ) Paul Breitner ( MF ) Sepp Maier ( GK ) Hans-Georg Schwarzenbeck ( DF ) Franz Roth ( MF ) 1980s: Karl-Heinz Rummenigge ( FW ) Klaus Augenthaler ( DF ) 1990s: Lothar Matthäus ( MF / DF ) Stefan Effenberg ( MF ) 2000s: Oliver Kahn ( GK ) Mehmet Scholl ( MF ) Bixente Lizarazu ( DF ) Giovane Élber ( FW ) 2010s: Philipp Lahm ( DF ) Bastian Schweinsteiger ( MF ) ^ "Fans name greatest Reds of all time" . The official FC Bayern Munich Website. 1 June 2005. Archived from the original on 7 December 2008 . Retrieved 24 November 2007 . ^ "Kahn wird Ehrenspielführer des FCB" (in German). The official FC Bayern Munich Website. 15 August 2008. Archived from the original on 21 December 2008 . Retrieved 2 September 2008 . ^ "Hall of Fame" . FC Bayern Munich . Archived from the original on 22 January 2021 . Retrieved 3 February 2021 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Captains

Captains [ edit ] Source : Years Captain 1965 Adolf Kunstwadl † ( DF ) 1965–1970 Werner Olk ( DF ) 1970–1977 Franz Beckenbauer † ( DF ) 1977–1979 Sepp Maier ( GK ) 1979 Gerd Müller † ( FW ) 1979–1980 Georg Schwarzenbeck ( DF ) 1980–1983 Paul Breitner ( MF ) 1983–1984 Karl-Heinz Rummenigge ( FW ) 1984–1991 Klaus Augenthaler ( DF ) 1991–1994 Raimond Aumann ( GK ) 1994–1997 Lothar Matthäus ( MF / DF ) 1997–1999 Thomas Helmer ( DF ) 1999–2002 Stefan Effenberg ( MF ) 2002–2008 Oliver Kahn ( GK ) 2008–2011 Mark van Bommel ( MF ) 2011–2017 Philipp Lahm ( DF ) 2017– Manuel Neuer ( GK ) ^ "From Beckenbauer to Kimmich: All of Bayern's Germany captains" .

______________________________________________________________________

## Coaches and management

Coaches and management [ edit ] See also: List of FC Bayern Munich records and statistics § Coaches Current staff [ edit ] As of 29 May 2024 Coaching staff Vincent Kompany Head coach Aaron Danks René Marić Floribert N'Galula Assistant coach Michael Rechner Goalkeeping coach Walter Gfrerer Head of performance Michael Niemeyer Head of video analyst Michael Cuper Video analysts Maximilian Schwab Giacomo Stey Fitness coaches Holger Broich Scientific director and head of fitness Bram Geers Fitness coaches Peter Schlösser Simon Martinello Markus Murrer Stefan Kerth Soner Mansuroglu Data analyst Medical department Prof. Dr. Roland Schmidt Internist and cardiologist Dr. Jochen Hahne Team doctor Prof. Dr. Peter Ueblacker Chief medical officer Helmut Erhard Head of physiotherapy Gerry Hoffmann Deputy head of physiotherapy Gianni Bianchi Physiotherapists Florian Brandner Knut Stamer Christian Huhn Stephan Weickert Sport management and organisation Christoph Freund Sporting director Kathleen Krüger Head of team management Maciej Jagiellowicz Team managers Samuel Geiler Rodyse Munienge Martin Dellemann Equipment managers Lawrence Aimable Sebastian Pflügler Haris Harbas Michael Lauerbach Coach drivers Armin Kriz Coaches since 1963 [ edit ] Bayern has had 20 coaches since its promotion to the Bundesliga in 1965. Udo Lattek , Giovanni Trapattoni and Ottmar Hitzfeld served two terms as head coach. Franz Beckenbauer served one term as head coach and one as caretaker, while Jupp Heynckes had four separate spells as coach, including one as caretaker. Lattek was the club's most successful coach, having won six Bundesliga titles, two DFB Cups and the European Cup; following closely is Ottmar Hitzfeld, who won five Bundesliga titles, two DFB Cups and the Champions League. The club's least successful coach was Søren Lerby , who won less than a third of his matches in charge and presided over the club's near-relegation in the 1991–92 campaign. No. Coach Period Major Titles Domestic European Worldwide from until days BL DP LP SC CL EL SC WC ICC CWC 1 Zlatko Čajkovski (1923–1998) 1 July 1963 30 June 1968 1,826 3 – 2 – – – – – 1 – – 2 Branko Zebec (1929–1988) 1 July 1968 13 March 1970 620 2 1 1 – – – – – – – – 3 Udo Lattek (1935–2015) 14 March 1970 2 January 1975 1,755 5 3 1 – – 1 – – – – – 4 Dettmar Cramer (1925–2015) 16 January 1975 30 November 1977 1,049 3 – – – – 2 – – – 1 – 5 Gyula Lóránt (1923–1981) 2 December 1977 18 December 1978 453 – – – – – – – – – – – 6 Pál Csernai (1932–2013) 19 December 1978 16 May 1983 1,537 3 2 1 – – – – – – – – 7 Reinhard Saftig ( caretaker ) (1952–) 17 May 1983 30 June 1983 44 – – – – – – – – – – – 8 Udo Lattek (1935–2015) 1 July 1983 30 June 1987 1,460 5 3 2 – – – – – – – – 9 Jupp Heynckes (1945–) 1 July 1987 8 October 1991 1,560 4 2 – – 2 – – – – – – 10 Søren Lerby (1958–) 9 October 1991 10 March 1992 153 – – – – – – – – – – – 11 Erich Ribbeck (1937–) 11 March 1992 27 December 1993 656 – – – – – – – – – – – 12 Franz Beckenbauer (1945–2024) 28 December 1993 30 June 1994 184 1 1 – – – – – – – – – 13 Giovanni Trapattoni (1939–) 1 July 1994 30 June 1995 364 – – – – – – – – – – – 14 Otto Rehhagel (1938–) 1 July 1995 27 April 1996 301 – – – – – – – – – – – 15 Franz Beckenbauer ( caretaker ) (1945–2024) 29 April 1996 15 May 1996 16 1 – – – – – 1 – – – – 16 Klaus Augenthaler ( caretaker ) (1957–) 16 May 1996 30 June 1996 45 – – – – – – – – – – – 17 Giovanni Trapattoni (1939–) 1 July 1996 30 June 1998 729 3 1 1 1 – – – – – – – 18 Ottmar Hitzfeld (1949–) 1 July 1998 30 June 2004 2,191 11 4 2 3 – 1 – – – 1 – 19 Felix Magath (1953–) 1 July 2004 31 January 2007 944 5 2 2 1 – – – – – – – 20 Ottmar Hitzfeld (1949–) 1 February 2007 30 June 2008 515 3 1 1 1 – – – – – – – 21 Jürgen Klinsmann (1964–) 1 July 2008 27 April 2009 300 – – – – – – – – – – – 22 Jupp Heynckes ( caretaker ) (1945–) 28 April 2009 30 June 2009 63 – – – – – – – – – – – 23 Louis van Gaal (1951–) 1 July 2009 9 April 2011 647 3 1 1 – 1 – – – – – – 24 Andries Jonker ( caretaker ) (1962–) 10 April 2011 30 June 2011 81 – – – – – – – – – – – 25 Jupp Heynckes (1945–) 1 July 2011 30 June 2013 730 4 1 1 – 1 1 – – – – – 26 Pep Guardiola (1971–) 1 July 2013 30 June 2016 1,095 7 3 2 – – – – 1 – – 1 27 Carlo Ancelotti (1959–) 1 July 2016 28 September 2017 454 3 1 – – 2 – – – – – – 28 Willy Sagnol ( caretaker ) (1977–) 29 September 2017 8 October 2017 9 – – – – – – – – – – – 29 Jupp Heynckes (1945–) 9 October 2017 1 July 2018 265 1 1 – – – – – – – – – 30 Niko Kovač (1971–) 1 July 2018 3 November 2019 490 3 1 1 – 1 – – – – – – 31 Hansi Flick (1965–) 3 November 2019 30 June 2021 605 7 2 1 – 1 1 – 1 – – 1 32 Julian Nagelsmann (1987–) 1 July 2021 24 March 2023 631 3 1 – – 2 – – – – – – 33 Thomas Tuchel (1973–) 25 March 2023 29 May 2024 431 1 1 – – – – – – – – – 34 Vincent Kompany (1986–) 29 May 2024 Present 369 – – – – – – – – – – – ^ "FC Bayern München – Profis" [FC Bayern Munich – Professionals]. fcbayern.com (in German). FC Bayern München AG. 2018. Archived from the original on 19 June 2017 . Retrieved 30 January 2019 . ^ Schulze-Marmeling, Dietrich (2003). Die Bayern. Die Geschichte des deutschen Rekordmeisters (in German). Die Werkstatt. p. 595. ISBN 3-89533-426-X . ^ "Remembering the disaster of 1991/92, Bayern Munich's worst season in modern history" . ^ "Are Bayern Munich heading towards their worst season for over a decade?" .

______________________________________________________________________

### Current staff

Current staff [ edit ] As of 29 May 2024 Coaching staff Vincent Kompany Head coach Aaron Danks René Marić Floribert N'Galula Assistant coach Michael Rechner Goalkeeping coach Walter Gfrerer Head of performance Michael Niemeyer Head of video analyst Michael Cuper Video analysts Maximilian Schwab Giacomo Stey Fitness coaches Holger Broich Scientific director and head of fitness Bram Geers Fitness coaches Peter Schlösser Simon Martinello Markus Murrer Stefan Kerth Soner Mansuroglu Data analyst Medical department Prof. Dr. Roland Schmidt Internist and cardiologist Dr. Jochen Hahne Team doctor Prof. Dr. Peter Ueblacker Chief medical officer Helmut Erhard Head of physiotherapy Gerry Hoffmann Deputy head of physiotherapy Gianni Bianchi Physiotherapists Florian Brandner Knut Stamer Christian Huhn Stephan Weickert Sport management and organisation Christoph Freund Sporting director Kathleen Krüger Head of team management Maciej Jagiellowicz Team managers Samuel Geiler Rodyse Munienge Martin Dellemann Equipment managers Lawrence Aimable Sebastian Pflügler Haris Harbas Michael Lauerbach Coach drivers Armin Kriz ^ "FC Bayern München – Profis" [FC Bayern Munich – Professionals]. fcbayern.com (in German). FC Bayern München AG. 2018. Archived from the original on 19 June 2017 . Retrieved 30 January 2019 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Coaches since 1963

Coaches since 1963 [ edit ] Bayern has had 20 coaches since its promotion to the Bundesliga in 1965. Udo Lattek , Giovanni Trapattoni and Ottmar Hitzfeld served two terms as head coach. Franz Beckenbauer served one term as head coach and one as caretaker, while Jupp Heynckes had four separate spells as coach, including one as caretaker. Lattek was the club's most successful coach, having won six Bundesliga titles, two DFB Cups and the European Cup; following closely is Ottmar Hitzfeld, who won five Bundesliga titles, two DFB Cups and the Champions League. The club's least successful coach was Søren Lerby , who won less than a third of his matches in charge and presided over the club's near-relegation in the 1991–92 campaign. No. Coach Period Major Titles Domestic European Worldwide from until days BL DP LP SC CL EL SC WC ICC CWC 1 Zlatko Čajkovski (1923–1998) 1 July 1963 30 June 1968 1,826 3 – 2 – – – – – 1 – – 2 Branko Zebec (1929–1988) 1 July 1968 13 March 1970 620 2 1 1 – – – – – – – – 3 Udo Lattek (1935–2015) 14 March 1970 2 January 1975 1,755 5 3 1 – – 1 – – – – – 4 Dettmar Cramer (1925–2015) 16 January 1975 30 November 1977 1,049 3 – – – – 2 – – – 1 – 5 Gyula Lóránt (1923–1981) 2 December 1977 18 December 1978 453 – – – – – – – – – – – 6 Pál Csernai (1932–2013) 19 December 1978 16 May 1983 1,537 3 2 1 – – – – – – – – 7 Reinhard Saftig ( caretaker ) (1952–) 17 May 1983 30 June 1983 44 – – – – – – – – – – – 8 Udo Lattek (1935–2015) 1 July 1983 30 June 1987 1,460 5 3 2 – – – – – – – – 9 Jupp Heynckes (1945–) 1 July 1987 8 October 1991 1,560 4 2 – – 2 – – – – – – 10 Søren Lerby (1958–) 9 October 1991 10 March 1992 153 – – – – – – – – – – – 11 Erich Ribbeck (1937–) 11 March 1992 27 December 1993 656 – – – – – – – – – – – 12 Franz Beckenbauer (1945–2024) 28 December 1993 30 June 1994 184 1 1 – – – – – – – – – 13 Giovanni Trapattoni (1939–) 1 July 1994 30 June 1995 364 – – – – – – – – – – – 14 Otto Rehhagel (1938–) 1 July 1995 27 April 1996 301 – – – – – – – – – – – 15 Franz Beckenbauer ( caretaker ) (1945–2024) 29 April 1996 15 May 1996 16 1 – – – – – 1 – – – – 16 Klaus Augenthaler ( caretaker ) (1957–) 16 May 1996 30 June 1996 45 – – – – – – – – – – – 17 Giovanni Trapattoni (1939–) 1 July 1996 30 June 1998 729 3 1 1 1 – – – – – – – 18 Ottmar Hitzfeld (1949–) 1 July 1998 30 June 2004 2,191 11 4 2 3 – 1 – – – 1 – 19 Felix Magath (1953–) 1 July 2004 31 January 2007 944 5 2 2 1 – – – – – – – 20 Ottmar Hitzfeld (1949–) 1 February 2007 30 June 2008 515 3 1 1 1 – – – – – – – 21 Jürgen Klinsmann (1964–) 1 July 2008 27 April 2009 300 – – – – – – – – – – – 22 Jupp Heynckes ( caretaker ) (1945–) 28 April 2009 30 June 2009 63 – – – – – – – – – – – 23 Louis van Gaal (1951–) 1 July 2009 9 April 2011 647 3 1 1 – 1 – – – – – – 24 Andries Jonker ( caretaker ) (1962–) 10 April 2011 30 June 2011 81 – – – – – – – – – – – 25 Jupp Heynckes (1945–) 1 July 2011 30 June 2013 730 4 1 1 – 1 1 – – – – – 26 Pep Guardiola (1971–) 1 July 2013 30 June 2016 1,095 7 3 2 – – – – 1 – – 1 27 Carlo Ancelotti (1959–) 1 July 2016 28 September 2017 454 3 1 – – 2 – – – – – – 28 Willy Sagnol ( caretaker ) (1977–) 29 September 2017 8 October 2017 9 – – – – – – – – – – – 29 Jupp Heynckes (1945–) 9 October 2017 1 July 2018 265 1 1 – – – – – – – – – 30 Niko Kovač (1971–) 1 July 2018 3 November 2019 490 3 1 1 – 1 – – – – – – 31 Hansi Flick (1965–) 3 November 2019 30 June 2021 605 7 2 1 – 1 1 – 1 – – 1 32 Julian Nagelsmann (1987–) 1 July 2021 24 March 2023 631 3 1 – – 2 – – – – – – 33 Thomas Tuchel (1973–) 25 March 2023 29 May 2024 431 1 1 – – – – – – – – – 34 Vincent Kompany (1986–) 29 May 2024 Present 369 – – – – – – – – – – – ^ Schulze-Marmeling, Dietrich (2003). Die Bayern. Die Geschichte des deutschen Rekordmeisters (in German). Die Werkstatt. p. 595. ISBN 3-89533-426-X . ^ "Remembering the disaster of 1991/92, Bayern Munich's worst season in modern history" . ^ "Are Bayern Munich heading towards their worst season for over a decade?" .

______________________________________________________________________

## Club management

Club management [ edit ] For a list of former presidents, see List of FC Bayern Munich records and statistics § Presidents . FC Bayern München AG [ edit ] Supervisory board ( Aufsichtsrat ) of FC Bayern AG Members Notes Source Herbert Hainer Chairman; FC Bayern e. V. president Jan Heinemann Adidas AG general counsel and chief compliance officer Gernot Döllner Audi AG executive board chairman Werner Zedelius Allianz SE board member Uli Hoeneß Deputy chairman; FC Bayern e. V. honorary president Thorsten Langheim Deutsche Telekom AG board member Dieter Mayer FC Bayern e. V. senior vice-president Edmund Stoiber Former Minister-President of Bavaria ; FC Bayern e. V. advisory board chairman Karl-Heinz Rummenigge Former FC Bayern AG chief executive officer Executive board ( Vorstand ) of FC Bayern AG Members Position Source Jan-Christian Dreesen Chief executive officer Michael Diederich Executive vice chairman Max Eberl Board member for sport FC Bayern München e. V. [ edit ] Presidium ( Präsidium ) of FC Bayern e. V. Members Position Source Herbert Hainer President Dieter Mayer Senior vice-president Walter Mennekes Deputy vice-president Advisory board ( Verwaltungsbeirat ) of FC Bayern e. V. Members Position Source Edmund Stoiber Chairman Alexandra Schörghuber Deputy chairwoman Dorothee Bär Advisory board member Georg Fahrenschon Peter Kerspe Marion Kiechle Lars Klingbeil Hildegard Müller Joachim Müller Dieter Reiter Josef Schmid Jochen Tschunke ^ "Herbert Hainer elected new FC Bayern München AG supervisory board chairman" . FC Bayern Munich official website. 9 December 2019. Archived from the original on 9 December 2019 . Retrieved 9 December 2019 . ^ "FC Bayern München AG: Supervisory board members" . FC Bayern Munich . 30 May 2023. Archived from the original on 20 May 2023 . Retrieved 2 July 2024 . ^ "FC Bayern München AG: Executive board" . FC Bayern Munich . Archived from the original on 6 April 2023 . Retrieved 2 July 2024 . ^ "Max Eberl joins Bayern Munich as board member for sport" . bundesliga.com - the official Bundesliga website . Retrieved 1 March 2024 . ^ a b c d "Bodies of FC Bayern München eV" . FC Bayern Munich . Archived from the original on 12 August 2023 . Retrieved 16 August 2023 .

______________________________________________________________________

### FC Bayern München AG

FC Bayern München AG [ edit ] Supervisory board ( Aufsichtsrat ) of FC Bayern AG Members Notes Source Herbert Hainer Chairman; FC Bayern e. V. president Jan Heinemann Adidas AG general counsel and chief compliance officer Gernot Döllner Audi AG executive board chairman Werner Zedelius Allianz SE board member Uli Hoeneß Deputy chairman; FC Bayern e. V. honorary president Thorsten Langheim Deutsche Telekom AG board member Dieter Mayer FC Bayern e. V. senior vice-president Edmund Stoiber Former Minister-President of Bavaria ; FC Bayern e. V. advisory board chairman Karl-Heinz Rummenigge Former FC Bayern AG chief executive officer Executive board ( Vorstand ) of FC Bayern AG Members Position Source Jan-Christian Dreesen Chief executive officer Michael Diederich Executive vice chairman Max Eberl Board member for sport ^ "Herbert Hainer elected new FC Bayern München AG supervisory board chairman" . FC Bayern Munich official website. 9 December 2019. Archived from the original on 9 December 2019 . Retrieved 9 December 2019 . ^ "FC Bayern München AG: Supervisory board members" . FC Bayern Munich . 30 May 2023. Archived from the original on 20 May 2023 . Retrieved 2 July 2024 . ^ "FC Bayern München AG: Executive board" . FC Bayern Munich . Archived from the original on 6 April 2023 . Retrieved 2 July 2024 . ^ "Max Eberl joins Bayern Munich as board member for sport" . bundesliga.com - the official Bundesliga website . Retrieved 1 March 2024 .

______________________________________________________________________

### FC Bayern München e. V.

FC Bayern München e. V. [ edit ] Presidium ( Präsidium ) of FC Bayern e. V. Members Position Source Herbert Hainer President Dieter Mayer Senior vice-president Walter Mennekes Deputy vice-president Advisory board ( Verwaltungsbeirat ) of FC Bayern e. V. Members Position Source Edmund Stoiber Chairman Alexandra Schörghuber Deputy chairwoman Dorothee Bär Advisory board member Georg Fahrenschon Peter Kerspe Marion Kiechle Lars Klingbeil Hildegard Müller Joachim Müller Dieter Reiter Josef Schmid Jochen Tschunke ^ a b c d "Bodies of FC Bayern München eV" . FC Bayern Munich . Archived from the original on 12 August 2023 . Retrieved 16 August 2023 .

______________________________________________________________________

## Other departments

Other departments [ edit ] Football [ edit ] The reserve team, FC Bayern Munich II , serves mainly as the final stepping stone for promising young players before being promoted to the main team. The team competes in the Regionalliga Bayern , the fourth level of German football . Their greatest achievement to date was winning the 3. Liga in the 2019–20 season. Since the inception of the Regionalliga in 1994, the team played in the Regionalliga Süd , after playing in the Oberliga since 1978. In the 2007–08 season, they qualified for the newly founded 3. Liga, where they lasted until 2011 when they were relegated to the Regionalliga. This ended 33 consecutive years of playing in the highest league that the German Football Association permits the second team of a professional football team to play. The FC Bayern Academy at the campus in Munich The youth academy has produced some of Europe's top football players, including Thomas Hitzlsperger , Owen Hargreaves , Philipp Lahm , Bastian Schweinsteiger and Thomas Müller . On 1 August 2017, the FC Bayern Campus became the new home of the youth teams. It consists of ten teams, with the youngest being under 9. Jochen Sauer is the FC Bayern Campus director, and Bayern legend coach Hermann Gerland is the sporting director. The women's football department consists of five teams, including a professional team, a reserve team, and two youth teams. The women's first team , which is led by head coach Thomas Wörle , features several members of the German national youth team. In the 2008–09 season, the team finished second in the women's Bundesliga . The division was founded in 1970 and consisted of four teams with 90 players. Their greatest successes were winning the championships in 1976, 2015, and 2016. In the 2011–12 season on 12 May 2012, FC Bayern Munich dethroned the German Cup title holders 1. FFC Frankfurt with a 2–0 in the 2011–12 final in Cologne and celebrated the biggest success of the club's history since winning the championship in 1976. In 2015, they won the Bundesliga for the first time, without any defeat. They won the 2015–16 Bundesliga for the second consecutive time. The senior football department was founded in 2002 and consists of five teams. The division is intended to enable senior athletes to participate in the various senior citizen competitions in Munich. The FC Bayern AllStars were founded in summer 2006, and consists of former Bayern players, including Klaus Augenthaler , Raimond Aumann , Andreas Brehme , Paul Breitner , Hans Pflügler , Stefan Reuter , Paulo Sérgio , and Olaf Thon . The team is coached by Wolfgang Dremmler , and plays matches with other senior teams around the world. For organisational reasons, the team can only play a limited number of games annually. The refereeing department was established in 1919 and is currently the largest football refereeing division in Europe, with 110 referees, with 2 of them women. The referees mainly officiate amateur games in the local Munich leagues. Other sports [ edit ] Bayern has other departments for a variety of sports. The basketball department was founded in 1946, and currently [ when? ] contains 26 teams, including four men's teams, three women's teams, sixteen youth teams, and three senior teams. The men's team are five-time German champions , having won in 1954, 1955, 2014 , 2018 , and 2019 . The team also won the German Basketball Cup in 1968, 2018 , and 2021 . The team plays its home games at the Rudi-Sedlmayer-Halle , located in the Sendling-Westpark borough of Munich. The bowling department emerged from SKC Real-Isaria in 1983 and currently consists of five teams. Directly next to the well-known club building of the football department, the team plays at the bowling alley of the Münchner Kegler-Verein. The first team plays in the second highest division of the Münchner Spielklasse Bezirksliga. The chess department was created in 1908 and consists of nine teams, including seven men's teams and two women's teams. The men's team, which currently plays in the Chess Bundesliga following promotion in 2013 from the 2. Bundesliga Ost, was nine-time German Champion from 1983 to 1995. The team also won the European Chess Club Cup in 1992. The women currently play in the 2. Bundesliga with their biggest successes being promotion to the Frauenbundesliga in 2016 and 2018. Logo of the handball department The handball department was founded in 1945, and consists of thirteen teams, including three men's teams, two women's teams, five boys teams, two girls teams, and a mixed youth team. The first men's team plays in the Bezirksoberliga Oberbayern, while the women's first teams plays in the Bezirksliga Oberbayern. The table tennis department was founded in 1946 and currently [ when? ] has 220 members. The club currently has fourteen teams, including eight men's teams, a women's team, three youth teams, and two children teams. The women's first team is currently playing in the Landesliga Süd/Ost, while the men's first team plays in the 3. Bundesliga Süd. The focus of the department is on youth support. ^ Cite error: The named reference fussballdaten was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ "FC Bayern Amateure – Der Kader 2016/17" [FC Bayern Amateurs – The 2016–17 Squad]. fcbayern.com (in German). FC Bayern München. 2017. Archived from the original on 12 October 2016 . Retrieved 26 February 2017 . ^ "Junior Team" (in German). FC Bayern Munich Official Web Site. 2008. Archived from the original on 21 December 2008 . Retrieved 11 August 2008 . ^ "Junior Team" . fcbayern.com (in German). FC Bayern München. 2017. Archived from the original on 27 February 2017 . Retrieved 26 February 2017 . ^ "FC Bayern Campus" . ^ "FC Bayern agree contract extension with Jochen Sauer until 2023" . ^ "Bayern appoint Hermann Gerland, Jochen Sauer to lead academy" . ^ "Women" . FC Bayern Munich Official Website. 2005. Archived from the original on 21 December 2008 . Retrieved 7 July 2008 . ^ "FC Bayern Frauen" [FC Bayern Women]. fcbayern.com (in German). FC Bayern München. 2017. Archived from the original on 26 February 2017 . Retrieved 26 February 2017 . ^ "Seniorenfußball" [Senior football]. fcbayern.com (in German). FC Bayern München. 2017. Archived from the original on 27 February 2017 . Retrieved 26 February 2017 . ^ "Die FC Bayern AllStars" [The FC Bayern AllStars]. fcbayern.com (in German). FC Bayern München. 2017. Archived from the original on 27 February 2017 . Retrieved 26 February 2017 . ^ "Schiedsrichter" [Referees]. fcbayern.com (in German). FC Bayern München. 2017. Archived from the original on 27 February 2017 . Retrieved 26 February 2017 . ^ "Schiedsrichterabteilung FC Bayern München – Home" [Referee Department FC Bayern Munich – Home]. fcbayern-schiedsrichter.de (in German). FC Bayern München. 2017. Archived from the original on 29 December 2016 . Retrieved 26 February 2017 . ^ Cite error: The named reference otherdepartments was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ "Basketball" . fcbayern.com (in German). FC Bayern München. 2017. Archived from the original on 27 February 2017 . Retrieved 26 February 2017 . ^ "Startseite – FC Bayern Basketball" [Homepage – FC Bayern Basketball]. fcb-basketball.de (in German). FC Bayern München. 2017. Archived from the original on 27 February 2017 . Retrieved 26 February 2017 . ^ "Sportkegeln" [Bowling]. fcbayern.com (in German). FC Bayern München. 2017. Archived from the original on 27 February 2017 . Retrieved 26 February 2017 . ^ "Kegelabteilung des FC Bayern München – Startseite" [Bowling department of FC Bayern Munich – Homepage]. fcb-kegeln.de (in German). FC Bayern München. 2017. Archived from the original on 29 December 2016 . Retrieved 26 February 2017 . ^ "2. Frauenbundesliga S" (in German). 28 February 2016. Archived from the original on 2 January 2020 . Retrieved 1 October 2019 . ^ "2. Frauenbundesliga S" (in German). 18 February 2018. Archived from the original on 7 September 2019 . Retrieved 1 October 2019 . ^ "Handball" . fcbayern.com (in German). FC Bayern München. 2017. Archived from the original on 27 February 2017 . Retrieved 26 February 2017 . ^ "FC Bayern Handball" . handball-fcbayern.de (in German). FC Bayern München. 2017. Archived from the original on 11 May 2015 . Retrieved 26 February 2017 . ^ "Tischtennis" [Table tennis]. fcbayern.com (in German). FC Bayern München. 2017. Archived from the original on 27 February 2017 . Retrieved 26 February 2017 . ^ "FC Bayern Tischtennis" [FC Bayern table tennis]. fcbayern-tischtennis.de (in German). FC Bayern München. 2017. Archived from the original on 26 November 2016 . Retrieved 26 February 2017 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Football

Football [ edit ] The reserve team, FC Bayern Munich II , serves mainly as the final stepping stone for promising young players before being promoted to the main team. The team competes in the Regionalliga Bayern , the fourth level of German football . Their greatest achievement to date was winning the 3. Liga in the 2019–20 season. Since the inception of the Regionalliga in 1994, the team played in the Regionalliga Süd , after playing in the Oberliga since 1978. In the 2007–08 season, they qualified for the newly founded 3. Liga, where they lasted until 2011 when they were relegated to the Regionalliga. This ended 33 consecutive years of playing in the highest league that the German Football Association permits the second team of a professional football team to play. The FC Bayern Academy at the campus in Munich The youth academy has produced some of Europe's top football players, including Thomas Hitzlsperger , Owen Hargreaves , Philipp Lahm , Bastian Schweinsteiger and Thomas Müller . On 1 August 2017, the FC Bayern Campus became the new home of the youth teams. It consists of ten teams, with the youngest being under 9. Jochen Sauer is the FC Bayern Campus director, and Bayern legend coach Hermann Gerland is the sporting director. The women's football department consists of five teams, including a professional team, a reserve team, and two youth teams. The women's first team , which is led by head coach Thomas Wörle , features several members of the German national youth team. In the 2008–09 season, the team finished second in the women's Bundesliga . The division was founded in 1970 and consisted of four teams with 90 players. Their greatest successes were winning the championships in 1976, 2015, and 2016. In the 2011–12 season on 12 May 2012, FC Bayern Munich dethroned the German Cup title holders 1. FFC Frankfurt with a 2–0 in the 2011–12 final in Cologne and celebrated the biggest success of the club's history since winning the championship in 1976. In 2015, they won the Bundesliga for the first time, without any defeat. They won the 2015–16 Bundesliga for the second consecutive time. The senior football department was founded in 2002 and consists of five teams. The division is intended to enable senior athletes to participate in the various senior citizen competitions in Munich. The FC Bayern AllStars were founded in summer 2006, and consists of former Bayern players, including Klaus Augenthaler , Raimond Aumann , Andreas Brehme , Paul Breitner , Hans Pflügler , Stefan Reuter , Paulo Sérgio , and Olaf Thon . The team is coached by Wolfgang Dremmler , and plays matches with other senior teams around the world. For organisational reasons, the team can only play a limited number of games annually. The refereeing department was established in 1919 and is currently the largest football refereeing division in Europe, with 110 referees, with 2 of them women. The referees mainly officiate amateur games in the local Munich leagues. ^ Cite error: The named reference fussballdaten was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ "FC Bayern Amateure – Der Kader 2016/17" [FC Bayern Amateurs – The 2016–17 Squad]. fcbayern.com (in German). FC Bayern München. 2017. Archived from the original on 12 October 2016 . Retrieved 26 February 2017 . ^ "Junior Team" (in German). FC Bayern Munich Official Web Site. 2008. Archived from the original on 21 December 2008 . Retrieved 11 August 2008 . ^ "Junior Team" . fcbayern.com (in German). FC Bayern München. 2017. Archived from the original on 27 February 2017 . Retrieved 26 February 2017 . ^ "FC Bayern Campus" . ^ "FC Bayern agree contract extension with Jochen Sauer until 2023" . ^ "Bayern appoint Hermann Gerland, Jochen Sauer to lead academy" . ^ "Women" . FC Bayern Munich Official Website. 2005. Archived from the original on 21 December 2008 . Retrieved 7 July 2008 . ^ "FC Bayern Frauen" [FC Bayern Women]. fcbayern.com (in German). FC Bayern München. 2017. Archived from the original on 26 February 2017 . Retrieved 26 February 2017 . ^ "Seniorenfußball" [Senior football]. fcbayern.com (in German). FC Bayern München. 2017. Archived from the original on 27 February 2017 . Retrieved 26 February 2017 . ^ "Die FC Bayern AllStars" [The FC Bayern AllStars]. fcbayern.com (in German). FC Bayern München. 2017. Archived from the original on 27 February 2017 . Retrieved 26 February 2017 . ^ "Schiedsrichter" [Referees]. fcbayern.com (in German). FC Bayern München. 2017. Archived from the original on 27 February 2017 . Retrieved 26 February 2017 . ^ "Schiedsrichterabteilung FC Bayern München – Home" [Referee Department FC Bayern Munich – Home]. fcbayern-schiedsrichter.de (in German). FC Bayern München. 2017. Archived from the original on 29 December 2016 . Retrieved 26 February 2017 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Other sports

Other sports [ edit ] Bayern has other departments for a variety of sports. The basketball department was founded in 1946, and currently [ when? ] contains 26 teams, including four men's teams, three women's teams, sixteen youth teams, and three senior teams. The men's team are five-time German champions , having won in 1954, 1955, 2014 , 2018 , and 2019 . The team also won the German Basketball Cup in 1968, 2018 , and 2021 . The team plays its home games at the Rudi-Sedlmayer-Halle , located in the Sendling-Westpark borough of Munich. The bowling department emerged from SKC Real-Isaria in 1983 and currently consists of five teams. Directly next to the well-known club building of the football department, the team plays at the bowling alley of the Münchner Kegler-Verein. The first team plays in the second highest division of the Münchner Spielklasse Bezirksliga. The chess department was created in 1908 and consists of nine teams, including seven men's teams and two women's teams. The men's team, which currently plays in the Chess Bundesliga following promotion in 2013 from the 2. Bundesliga Ost, was nine-time German Champion from 1983 to 1995. The team also won the European Chess Club Cup in 1992. The women currently play in the 2. Bundesliga with their biggest successes being promotion to the Frauenbundesliga in 2016 and 2018. Logo of the handball department The handball department was founded in 1945, and consists of thirteen teams, including three men's teams, two women's teams, five boys teams, two girls teams, and a mixed youth team. The first men's team plays in the Bezirksoberliga Oberbayern, while the women's first teams plays in the Bezirksliga Oberbayern. The table tennis department was founded in 1946 and currently [ when? ] has 220 members. The club currently has fourteen teams, including eight men's teams, a women's team, three youth teams, and two children teams. The women's first team is currently playing in the Landesliga Süd/Ost, while the men's first team plays in the 3. Bundesliga Süd. The focus of the department is on youth support. ^ Cite error: The named reference otherdepartments was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ "Basketball" . fcbayern.com (in German). FC Bayern München. 2017. Archived from the original on 27 February 2017 . Retrieved 26 February 2017 . ^ "Startseite – FC Bayern Basketball" [Homepage – FC Bayern Basketball]. fcb-basketball.de (in German). FC Bayern München. 2017. Archived from the original on 27 February 2017 . Retrieved 26 February 2017 . ^ "Sportkegeln" [Bowling]. fcbayern.com (in German). FC Bayern München. 2017. Archived from the original on 27 February 2017 . Retrieved 26 February 2017 . ^ "Kegelabteilung des FC Bayern München – Startseite" [Bowling department of FC Bayern Munich – Homepage]. fcb-kegeln.de (in German). FC Bayern München. 2017. Archived from the original on 29 December 2016 . Retrieved 26 February 2017 . ^ "2. Frauenbundesliga S" (in German). 28 February 2016. Archived from the original on 2 January 2020 . Retrieved 1 October 2019 . ^ "2. Frauenbundesliga S" (in German). 18 February 2018. Archived from the original on 7 September 2019 . Retrieved 1 October 2019 . ^ "Handball" . fcbayern.com (in German). FC Bayern München. 2017. Archived from the original on 27 February 2017 . Retrieved 26 February 2017 . ^ "FC Bayern Handball" . handball-fcbayern.de (in German). FC Bayern München. 2017. Archived from the original on 11 May 2015 . Retrieved 26 February 2017 . ^ "Tischtennis" [Table tennis]. fcbayern.com (in German). FC Bayern München. 2017. Archived from the original on 27 February 2017 . Retrieved 26 February 2017 . ^ "FC Bayern Tischtennis" [FC Bayern table tennis]. fcbayern-tischtennis.de (in German). FC Bayern München. 2017. Archived from the original on 26 November 2016 . Retrieved 26 February 2017 .

______________________________________________________________________

## Literature

Literature [ edit ] Hüetlin, Thomas: Gute Freunde. Die wahre Geschichte des FC Bayern München . Blessing, München 2006. ISBN 3-89667-254-1 . Schulze-Marmeling, Dietrich: Der FC Bayern und seine Juden. Aufstieg und Zerschlagung einer liberalen Fußballkultur . Verlag Die Werkstatt, Göttingen 2011. ISBN 978-3-89533-781-9 . Bausenwein, Christoph, Schulze-Marmeling, Dietrich: FC Bayern München. Unser Verein, unsere Geschichte . Verlag Die Werkstatt, Göttingen 2012. ISBN 978-3-89533-894-6 . ^ Vgl. Markwart Herzog: Fußball unterm Hakenkreuz Archived 28 October 2014 at the Wayback Machine . In: H-Soz-u-Kult , 15. Juni 2011 (Sammelrezension zu: Backes, Gregor: "Mit Deutschem Sportgruss, Heil Hitler". Der FC St. Pauli im Nationalsozialismus . Hamburg 2010/Dietrich Schulze-Marmeling: Der FC Bayern und seine Juden. Aufstieg und Zerschlagung einer liberalen Fußballkultur . Göttingen 2011/Jakob Rosenberg u. a. (Hrsg.): Grün-Weiß unterm Hakenkreuz. Der Sportklub Rapid im Nationalsozialismus (1938–1945) . Wien 2011)

______________________________________________________________________

## Notes

Notes [ edit ]

______________________________________________________________________

## References

References [ edit ]

______________________________________________________________________

## See also

See also [ edit ] List of world champion football clubs

______________________________________________________________________

## External links

External links [ edit ] Wikimedia Commons has media related to FC Bayern München . Official website Yearly record in the Bundesliga (archived) FC Bayern Munich at UEFA Links to related articles v t e FC Bayern Munich Information Club History Players Reserve team players Managers Matches Records & Statistics International competitions Current season Stadia Allianz Arena Olympiastadion Grünwalder Stadion FC Bayern Campus Other teams Women's Team Reserve Team Junior Team Basketball Team Seasons List of seasons List of women's team seasons List of reserve team seasons Rivalries Munich derby Bavarian derby Der Klassiker Real Madrid Related articles Franz Beckenbauer Cup Uli Hoeneß Cup Audi Cup " Stern des Südens " " Bayern " Bayern-luck v t e FC Bayern Munich – current squad 1 Neuer ( c ) 2 Upamecano 3 Kim M.J. 4 Tah 6 Kimmich 7 Gnabry 8 Goretzka 9 Kane 10 Sané 11 Coman 15 Dier 16 Palhinha 17 Olise 18 Peretz 19 Davies 21 Itō 22 Guerreiro 23 Boey 24 Vidović 25 Müller 26 Ulreich 27 Laimer 28 Buchmann 40 Urbig 42 Musiala 44 Stanišić 45 Pavlović Manager: Kompany v t e FC Bayern Munich – managers Hesselink ( 1903 –?) Taylor ( 1907 –?) Hoer ( 1909 –11) Taylor ( 1911 ) Griffiths ( 1911 –12) Townley ( 1914 ) Kreisel ( 1915 ) Baumann ( 1916 –17) Kirstner ( 1917 –18) Storch ( 1918 –19) Townley ( 1919 –21) Schmid ( 1921 –24) McPherson ( 1924 –27) Weisz ( 1927 –28) Konrád ( 1928 –30) Kohn ( 1931 –33) Tauchert ( 1933 –34) Hofmann ( 1934 –35) Michalke ( 1935 –37) Körner ( 1937 –38) Goldbrunner ( 1938 –43) Heidkamp ( 1943 –45) Högg ( 1945 –46) Pöttinger ( 1946 –47) Riemke ( 1947 ) Dietl ( 1947 –48) Riemke ( 1948 –50) Davison ( 1950 ) Riemke ( 1951 ) Schäfer ( 1951 –53) Bayerer ( 1953 –54) Knöpfle ( 1954 ) Streitle ( 1954 –55) Moll ( 1954 –56) Hahn ( 1956 –58) Moll ( 1958 ) Patek ( 1958 –61) Schneider ( 1961 –63) Čajkovski ( 1963 –68) Zebec ( 1968 –70) Lattek ( 1970 –75) Cramer ( 1975 –77) Lóránt ( 1977 –78) Csernai ( 1978 –83) Saftig c ( 1983 ) Lattek ( 1983 –87) Heynckes ( 1987 –91) Lerby ( 1991 –92) Ribbeck ( 1992 –93) Beckenbauer ( 1994 ) Trapattoni ( 1994 –95) Rehhagel ( 1995 –96) Beckenbauer c ( 1996 ) Trapattoni ( 1996 –98) Hitzfeld ( 1998 –2004) Magath ( 2004 –07) Hitzfeld ( 2007 –08) Klinsmann ( 2008 –09) Heynckes c ( 2009 ) Van Gaal ( 2009 –11) Jonker c ( 2011 ) Heynckes ( 2011 –13) Guardiola ( 2013 –16) Ancelotti ( 2016 –17) Sagnol c ( 2017 ) Heynckes ( 2017 –18) Kovač ( 2018 –19) Flick ( 2019 –21) Nagelsmann ( 2021 –23) Tuchel ( 2023 –24) Kompany ( 2024 –) (c) = caretaker manager v t e FC Bayern Munich seasons First team 1900–01 1901–02 1902–03 1903–04 1904–05 1905–06 1906–07 1907–08 1908–09 1909–10 1910–11 1911–12 1912–13 1913–14 1914–15 1915–16 1916–17 1917–18 1918–19 1919–20 1920–21 1921–22 1922–23 1923–24 1924–25 1925–26 1926–27 1927–28 1928–29 1929–30 1930–31 1931–32 1932–33 1933–34 1934–35 1935–36 1936–37 1937–38 1938–39 1939–40 1940–41 1941–42 1942–43 1943–44 1944–45 1945–46 1946–47 1947–48 1948–49 1949–50 1950–51 1951–52 1952–53 1953–54 1954–55 1955–56 1956–57 1957–58 1958–59 1959–60 1960–61 1961–62 1962–63 1963–64 1964–65 1965–66 1966–67 1967–68 1968–69 1969–70 1970–71 1971–72 1972–73 1973–74 1974–75 1975–76 1976–77 1977–78 1978–79 1979–80 1980–81 1981–82 1982–83 1983–84 1984–85 1985–86 1986–87 1987–88 1988–89 1989–90 1990–91 1991–92 1992–93 1993–94 1994–95 1995–96 1996–97 1997–98 1998–99 1999–2000 2000–01 2001–02 2002–03 2003–04 2004–05 2005–06 2006–07 2007–08 2008–09 2009–10 2010–11 2011–12 2012–13 2013–14 2014–15 2015–16 2016–17 2017–18 2018–19 2019–20 2020–21 2021–22 2022–23 2023–24 2024–25 2025–26 Reserve team 2008–09 2009–10 2010–11 2011–12 2012–13 2013–14 2014–15 2015–16 2016–17 2017–18 2018–19 2019–20 2020–21 2021–22 2022–23 2023–24 2024–25 2025–26 v t e European Cup and UEFA Champions League winners European Cup era, 1955–1992 1950s 1955–56 : Real Madrid 1956–57 : Real Madrid 1957–58 : Real Madrid 1958–59 : Real Madrid 1959–60 : Real Madrid 1960s 1960–61 : Benfica 1961–62 : Benfica 1962–63 : Milan 1963–64 : Inter Milan 1964–65 : Inter Milan 1965–66 : Real Madrid 1966–67 : Celtic 1967–68 : Manchester United 1968–69 : Milan 1969–70 : Feyenoord 1970s 1970–71 : Ajax 1971–72 : Ajax 1972–73 : Ajax 1973–74 : Bayern Munich 1974–75 : Bayern Munich 1975–76 : Bayern Munich 1976–77 : Liverpool 1977–78 : Liverpool 1978–79 : Nottingham Forest 1979–80 : Nottingham Forest 1980s 1980–81 : Liverpool 1981–82 : Aston Villa 1982–83 : Hamburger SV 1983–84 : Liverpool 1984–85 : Juventus 1985–86 : Steaua București 1986–87 : Porto 1987–88 : PSV 1988–89 : Milan 1989–90 : Milan 1990s 1990–91 : Red Star Belgrade 1991–92 : Barcelona UEFA Champions League era, 1992–present 1990s 1992–93 : Marseille 1993–94 : Milan 1994–95 : Ajax 1995–96 : Juventus 1996–97 : Borussia Dortmund 1997–98 : Real Madrid 1998–99 : Manchester United 1999–2000 : Real Madrid 2000s 2000–01 : Bayern Munich 2001–02 : Real Madrid 2002–03 : Milan 2003–04 : Porto 2004–05 : Liverpool 2005–06 : Barcelona 2006–07 : Milan 2007–08 : Manchester United 2008–09 : Barcelona 2009–10 : Inter Milan 2010s 2010–11 : Barcelona 2011–12 : Chelsea 2012–13 : Bayern Munich 2013–14 : Real Madrid 2014–15 : Barcelona 2015–16 : Real Madrid 2016–17 : Real Madrid 2017–18 : Real Madrid 2018–19 : Liverpool 2019–20 : Bayern Munich 2020s 2020–21 : Chelsea 2021–22 : Real Madrid 2022–23 : Manchester City 2023–24 : Real Madrid 2024–25 : Paris Saint-Germain Finals Winning managers v t e UEFA Cup and UEFA Europa League winners UEFA Cup era, 1971–2009 1970s 1971–72 : Tottenham Hotspur 1972–73 : Liverpool 1973–74 : Feyenoord 1974–75 : Borussia Mönchengladbach 1975–76 : Liverpool 1976–77 : Juventus 1977–78 : PSV Eindhoven 1978–79 : Borussia Mönchengladbach 1979–80 : Eintracht Frankfurt 1980s 1980–81 : Ipswich Town 1981–82 : IFK Göteborg 1982–83 : Anderlecht 1983–84 : Tottenham Hotspur 1984–85 : Real Madrid 1985–86 : Real Madrid 1986–87 : IFK Göteborg 1987–88 : Bayer Leverkusen 1988–89 : Napoli 1989–90 : Juventus 1990s 1990–91 : Internazionale 1991–92 : Ajax 1992–93 : Juventus 1993–94 : Internazionale 1994–95 : Parma 1995–96 : Bayern Munich 1996–97 : Schalke 04 1997–98 : Internazionale 1998–99 : Parma 1999–2000 : Galatasaray 2000s 2000–01 : Liverpool 2001–02 : Feyenoord 2002–03 : Porto 2003–04 : Valencia 2004–05 : CSKA Moscow 2005–06 : Sevilla 2006–07 : Sevilla 2007–08 : Zenit Saint Petersburg 2008–09 : Shakhtar Donetsk UEFA Europa League era, 2009–present 2000s 2009–10 : Atlético Madrid 2010s 2010–11 : Porto 2011–12 : Atlético Madrid 2012–13 : Chelsea 2013–14 : Sevilla 2014–15 : Sevilla 2015–16 : Sevilla 2016–17 : Manchester United 2017–18 : Atlético Madrid 2018–19 : Chelsea 2019–20 : Sevilla 2020s 2020–21 : Villarreal 2021–22 : Eintracht Frankfurt 2022–23 : Sevilla 2023–24 : Atalanta 2024–25 : Tottenham Hotspur Finals Winning managers v t e UEFA Cup Winners' Cup winners 1960s 1960–61 : Fiorentina 1961–62 : Atlético Madrid 1962–63 : Tottenham Hotspur 1963–64 : Sporting CP 1964–65 : West Ham United 1965–66 : Borussia Dortmund 1966–67 : Bayern Munich 1967–68 : AC Milan 1968–69 : Slovan Bratislava 1969–70 : Manchester City 1970s 1970–71 : Chelsea 1971–72 : Rangers 1972–73 : AC Milan 1973–74 : 1. FC Magdeburg 1974–75 : Dynamo Kyiv 1975–76 : Anderlecht 1976–77 : Hamburger SV 1977–78 : Anderlecht 1978–79 : Barcelona 1979–80 : Valencia 1980s 1980–81 : Dinamo Tbilisi 1981–82 : Barcelona 1982–83 : Aberdeen 1983–84 : Juventus 1984–85 : Everton 1985–86 : Dynamo Kyiv 1986–87 : Ajax 1987–88 : Mechelen 1988–89 : Barcelona 1989–90 : Sampdoria 1990s 1990–91 : Manchester United 1991–92 : Werder Bremen 1992–93 : Parma 1993–94 : Arsenal 1994–95 : Zaragoza 1995–96 : Paris Saint-Germain 1996–97 : Barcelona 1997–98 : Chelsea 1998–99 : Lazio v t e UEFA Super Cup winners UCL vs. CWC 1973 : Ajax 1975 : Dynamo Kyiv 1976 : Anderlecht 1977 : Liverpool 1978 : Anderlecht 1979 : Nottingham Forest 1980 : Valencia 1982 : Aston Villa 1983 : Aberdeen 1984 : Juventus 1986 : Steaua București 1987 : Porto 1988 : Mechelen 1989 : Milan 1990 : Milan 1991 : Manchester United 1992 : Barcelona 1993 : Parma 1994 : Milan 1995 : Ajax 1996 : Juventus 1997 : Barcelona 1998 : Chelsea 1999 : Lazio UCL vs. UEL 2000 : Galatasaray 2001 : Liverpool 2002 : Real Madrid 2003 : Milan 2004 : Valencia 2005 : Liverpool 2006 : Sevilla 2007 : Milan 2008 : Zenit St. Petersburg 2009 : Barcelona 2010 : Atlético Madrid 2011 : Barcelona 2012 : Atlético Madrid 2013 : Bayern Munich 2014 : Real Madrid 2015 : Barcelona 2016 : Real Madrid 2017 : Real Madrid 2018 : Atlético Madrid 2019 : Liverpool 2020 : Bayern Munich 2021 : Chelsea 2022 : Real Madrid 2023 : Manchester City 2024 : Real Madrid Winning managers v t e Intercontinental Cup winners 1960s 1960 : Real Madrid 1961 : Peñarol 1962 : Santos 1963 : Santos 1964 : Inter Milan 1965 : Inter Milan 1966 : Peñarol 1967 : Racing 1968 : Estudiantes de La Plata 1969 : AC Milan 1970s 1970 : Feyenoord 1971 : Nacional 1972 : Ajax 1973 : Independiente 1974 : Atlético Madrid 1976 : Bayern Munich 1977 : Boca Juniors 1979 : Olimpia 1980s 1980 : Nacional 1981 : Flamengo 1982 : Peñarol 1983 : Grêmio 1984 : Independiente 1985 : Juventus 1986 : River Plate 1987 : Porto 1988 : Nacional 1989 : AC Milan 1990s 1990 : AC Milan 1991 : Red Star Belgrade 1992 : São Paulo 1993 : São Paulo 1994 : Vélez Sársfield 1995 : Ajax 1996 : Juventus 1997 : Borussia Dortmund 1998 : Real Madrid 1999 : Manchester United 2000s 2000 : Boca Juniors 2001 : Bayern Munich 2002 : Real Madrid 2003 : Boca Juniors 2004 : Porto v t e FIFA Club World Cup winners 2000s 2000 : Corinthians 2001 : Cancelled 2005 : São Paulo 2006 : Internacional 2007 : AC Milan 2008 : Manchester United 2009 : Barcelona 2010s 2010 : Inter Milan 2011 : Barcelona 2012 : Corinthians 2013 : Bayern Munich 2014 : Real Madrid 2015 : Barcelona 2016 : Real Madrid 2017 : Real Madrid 2018 : Real Madrid 2019 : Liverpool 2020s 2020 : Bayern Munich 2021 : Chelsea 2022 : Real Madrid 2023 : Manchester City v t e Laureus World Sports Award for Team of the Year winners 2000: Manchester United F.C. 2001: France national football team 2002: Australia national cricket team 2003: Brazil national football team 2004: England national rugby union team 2005: Greece national football team 2006: Renault F1 2007: Italy national football team 2008: South Africa national rugby union team 2009: Chinese Olympic team 2010: Brawn GP 2011: Spain national football team 2012: FC Barcelona 2013: European Ryder Cup team 2014: FC Bayern Munich 2015: Germany national football team 2016: New Zealand national rugby union team 2017: Chicago Cubs 2018: Mercedes F1 2019: France national football team 2020: South Africa national rugby union team 2021: FC Bayern Munich 2022: Italy national football team 2023: Argentina national football team 2024: Spain women's national football team 2025: Real Madrid v t e Bundesliga 2024–25 clubs FC Augsburg Bayer Leverkusen Bayern Munich VfL Bochum Borussia Dortmund Borussia Mönchengladbach Eintracht Frankfurt SC Freiburg 1. FC Heidenheim TSG Hoffenheim Holstein Kiel RB Leipzig Mainz 05 FC St. Pauli VfB Stuttgart Union Berlin Werder Bremen VfL Wolfsburg Former clubs 1860 Munich Alemannia Aachen Arminia Bielefeld Bayer 05 Uerdingen/KFC Uerdingen 05 Blau-Weiß 90 Berlin Borussia Neunkirchen Darmstadt 98 Dynamo Dresden Fortuna Düsseldorf Eintracht Braunschweig Energie Cottbus Fortuna Köln Greuther Fürth Hamburger SV Hannover 96 Hansa Rostock Hertha BSC FC 08 Homburg FC Ingolstadt 1. FC Kaiserslautern Karlsruher SC Kickers Offenbach 1. FC Köln VfB Leipzig Meidericher SV/MSV Duisburg Preußen Münster 1. FC Nürnberg Rot-Weiss Essen Rot-Weiß Oberhausen SC Paderborn 1. FC Saarbrücken Schalke 04 Stuttgarter Kickers Tasmania Berlin Tennis Borussia Berlin SSV Ulm SpVgg Unterhaching Waldhof Mannheim Wattenscheid 09 Wuppertaler SV History Meisterschale Reichsliga Introduction in 1963 1965 scandal 1971 scandal 2005 scandal Promotion Competition Clubs winners Players foreign Managers Lists and statistics Records and statistics Borussia Mönchengladbach 12–0 Borussia Dortmund All-time table Footballer of the Year Top scorers Top scorers by season Hat-tricks Attendance Awards Seasons 1963–64 1964–65 1965–66 1966–67 1967–68 1968–69 1969–70 1970–71 1971–72 1972–73 1973–74 1974–75 1975–76 1976–77 1977–78 1978–79 1979–80 1980–81 1981–82 1982–83 1983–84 1984–85 1985–86 1986–87 1987–88 1988–89 1989–90 1990–91 1991–92 1992–93 1993–94 1994–95 1995–96 1996–97 1997–98 1998–99 1999–2000 2000–01 2001–02 2002–03 2003–04 2004–05 2005–06 2006–07 2007–08 2008–09 2009–10 2010–11 2011–12 2012–13 2013–14 2014–15 2015–16 2016–17 2017–18 2018–19 2019–20 2020–21 2021–22 2022–23 2023–24 2024–25 2025–26 Category Managers Players v t e Former members of the G-14 (1998–2008) 1998–2008 Ajax Barcelona Bayern Munich Borussia Dortmund Inter Milan Juventus Liverpool Manchester United Marseille AC Milan Paris Saint-Germain Porto PSV Eindhoven Real Madrid 2002–2008 Arsenal Bayer Leverkusen Lyon Valencia v t e Founding members of the European Club Association Ajax Anderlecht Barcelona Bayern Munich Birkirkara Chelsea Copenhagen Dinamo Zagreb Juventus Lyon Manchester United AC Milan Olympiacos Porto Rangers Real Madrid Authority control databases International VIAF National Germany United States France BnF data Czech Republic Israel Artists MusicBrainz 48°6′7″N 11°34′22″E ﻿ / ﻿ 48.10194°N 11.57278°E ﻿ / 48.10194; 11.57278

______________________________________________________________________
