# WIKIPEDIA ARTICLE: Borussia_Dortmund

## TABLE OF CONTENTS

1 History
1.1 Foundation and early years
1.2 First national titles
1.3 Bundesliga debut
1.4 Golden age – the 1990s
1.5 21st century and Borussia "goes public"
1.6 Klopp era and return to prominence
1.7 Post-Klopp era
2 Crest
3 Grounds
3.1 Stadiums
3.2 Training ground
4 Organisation and finance
4.1 Current management and board
5 Kits and sponsorship
5.1 Sponsors
6 Controversy
7 Charity
8 Players
8.1 Current squad
8.2 Out on loan
8.3 Reserves and Youth Sector
8.4 Club captains
9 Non-playing staff
9.1 Head coaches
10 Records
11 Honours
11.1 Regional
11.2 Individual trophies
12 UEFA club coefficient ranking
13 Affiliated clubs
14 Women's team
15 See also
16 References
17 External links

# FULL CONTENT

## History

History [ edit ] Foundation and early years [ edit ] Borussia Dortmund in 1913 The club was founded on 19 December 1909 by a group of young men unhappy with the Catholic church-sponsored Trinity Youth , where they played football under the guidance of the local parish priest. The priest, Father Dewald was blocked at the door when he tried to break up the organising meeting being held in a room of the local pub, Zum Wildschütz . The founders were Franz and Paul Braun, Henry Cleve, Hans Debest, Paul Dziendzielle, Franz, Julius and Wilhelm Jacobi, Hans Kahn, Gustav Müller, Franz Risse, Fritz Schulte, Hans Siebold, August Tönnesmann, Heinrich and Robert Unger, Fritz Weber and Franz Wendt. The name Borussia is Latin for Prussia but was taken from Borussia beer from the nearby Borussia brewery in Dortmund. The team began playing in blue and white striped shirts with a red sash, and black shorts. In 1913, they donned the black and yellow stripes for the first time. Over the next decades the club had only modest success playing in local leagues. They came close to bankruptcy in 1929 when an attempt to boost the club's fortunes by signing some paid professional footballers failed miserably and left the team deep in debt. They survived only through the generosity of a local supporter who covered the team's shortfall out of his own pocket. The 1930s saw the rise of the Third Reich , which restructured sports and football organisations throughout the nation to suit the regime's goals. Borussia' s president was replaced when he refused to join the Nazi Party , and a couple of members who surreptitiously used the club's offices to produce anti-Nazi pamphlets were executed in the last days of the war. The club did have greater success in the newly established Gauliga Westfalen , but would have to wait until after the Second World War to make a breakthrough. It was during this time that Borussia developed its intense rivalry with Schalke 04 of suburban Gelsenkirchen , the most successful side of the era (see Revierderby ). Like every other organisation in Germany, Borussia was dissolved by the Allied occupation authorities after the war in an attempt to distance the country's institutions from its recent Nazi past. There was a short-lived attempt to merge the club with two others – Werksportgemeinschaft Hoesch and Freier Sportverein 98 – as Sportgemeinschaft Borussia von 1898 , but it was as Ballspiel-Verein Borussia ( BVB ) that they made their first appearance in the national league final in 1949. First national titles [ edit ] Historical chart of Borussia Dortmund league performance Between 1946 and 1963, Borussia featured in the Oberliga West , a first division league which dominated German football through the late 1950s. In 1949 , Borussia reached the final in Stuttgart against VfR Mannheim , which they lost 2–3 after extra time. The club claimed its first national title in 1956 with a 4–2 win against Karlsruher SC . One year later, Borussia defeated Hamburger SV 4–1 to win their second national title . After this coup, [ tone ] the three Alfredos ( Alfred Preißler , Alfred Kelbassa and Alfred Niepieklo ) were legends [ tone ] in Dortmund. In 1963 , Borussia won the last edition of the German Football Championship (before the introduction of the new Bundesliga ) to secure their third national title. Bundesliga debut [ edit ] In 1962, the DFB met in Dortmund and voted to establish a professional football league in Germany, to begin play in August 1963 as the Bundesliga . Borussia Dortmund earned its place among the first sixteen clubs to play in the league by winning the last pre-Bundesliga national championship. Runners-up 1. FC Köln also earned an automatic berth. Dortmund's Friedhelm Konietzka scored the first-ever Bundesliga goal a minute into the match, which they would eventually lose 2–3 to Werder Bremen . In 1965 , Dortmund won its first DFB-Pokal . In 1966, Dortmund won the European Cup Winners' Cup 2–1 against Liverpool in extra time, with the goals coming from Sigfried Held and Reinhard Libuda . In the same year , however, the team lost their top position on the Bundesliga by losing four of their last five league games and finishing second, three points behind champions 1860 München , most of whose success came on the strength of the play of Konietzka, recently transferred from Dortmund. The 1970s were characterised by financial problems, relegation from the Bundesliga in 1972, and the opening of the Westfalenstadion , named after its home region Westphalia in 1974. The club returned to the Bundesliga in 1976. Dortmund continued to have financial problems through the 1980s. BVB avoided being relegated in 1986 by winning a third decisive playoff game against Fortuna Köln after finishing the regular season in 16th place. Dortmund did not have any significant success again until a 4–1 DFB-Pokal win in 1989 against Werder Bremen. It was Horst Köppel 's first trophy as a manager. [ citation needed ] Dortmund then won the 1989 DFL-Supercup 4–3 against rivals Bayern Munich . Golden age – the 1990s [ edit ] After a tenth-place finish in the Bundesliga in 1991 , manager Horst Köppel was sacked and manager Ottmar Hitzfeld was hired. In 1992 , Hitzfeld led Borussia Dortmund to a second-place finish in the Bundesliga, and would have won the title had VfB Stuttgart not won their last game to become champions instead. Along with a fourth-place finish in the Bundesliga, Dortmund made it to the 1993 UEFA Cup final , which they lost 6–1 on aggregate to Juventus . In spite of this result, Borussia walked away with DM 25 million under the prize money pool system in place at the time for German sides participating in the Cup. Thanks to the prize money, Dortmund was able to sign players who later brought them numerous honours in the 1990s. Under the captaincy of 1996 European Footballer of the Year Matthias Sammer , Borussia Dortmund won back-to-back Bundesliga titles in 1995 and 1996 . Dortmund also won the DFL-Supercup against Mönchengladbach in 1995 and 1. FC Kaiserslautern in 1996 . In 1996–97 the team reached its first European Cup final . In a memorable match at the Olympiastadion in Munich , Dortmund faced the holders Juventus. Karl-Heinz Riedle put Dortmund ahead, shooting under goalkeeper Angelo Peruzzi from a cross by Paul Lambert . Riedle then made it two with a bullet header from a corner kick. In the second half, Alessandro Del Piero pulled one back for Juventus with a back heel. Then 20-year-old substitute and Dortmund-born Lars Ricken latched onto a through pass by Andreas Möller . Only 16 seconds after coming on to the pitch, Ricken chipped Peruzzi in the Juventus goal from over 20 yards out with his first touch of the ball. With Zinedine Zidane unable to make an impression for Juventus against the close marking of Lambert, Dortmund lifted the trophy with a 3–1 victory. Hitzfeld's successful managerial reign then ended, with Nevio Scala being appointed as his successor. Dortmund then beat Brazilian club Cruzeiro 2–0 in the 1997 Intercontinental Cup final to become world club champions. Borussia Dortmund were the second German club to win the Intercontinental Cup, after Bayern Munich in 1976 . As defending champions, Dortmund reached the Champions League semi-final in 1998. The team was missing key players from the start of the season when they played Real Madrid in the 1998 semi-final. [ vague ] Sammer's career was shortened by injury and only played three first team games after the 1997 Champions League win. Lambert had left in November to return to play in Scotland. Möller missed the first leg as did Kohler who missed both games in the tie. Real won the first leg 2–0 at home. Dortmund played better in the second leg, but did not take their chances. The club exited 2–0 on aggregate. 21st century and Borussia "goes public" [ edit ] Borussia Dortmund in 2007 In October 2000, Borussia Dortmund became the first publicly traded club on the German stock market. In 2002 , Borussia Dortmund won their third Bundesliga title. Dortmund had a remarkable run at the end of the season to overtake Bayer Leverkusen , securing the title on the final day. Manager Matthias Sammer became the first person in Borussia Dortmund history to win the Bundesliga as both a player and manager. In the same season, Borussia lost the final of the 2001–02 UEFA Cup to the Dutch club Feyenoord . Dortmund's fortunes then steadily declined for several years. Poor financial management led to a heavy debt load and the sale of their Westfalenstadion grounds. The situation was compounded by failure to advance in the 2003–04 UEFA Champions League , when the team was eliminated on penalties in the qualifying rounds by Club Brugge . In 2003, Bayern Munich loaned €2 million to Dortmund for several months to pay their payroll. Borussia was again driven to the brink of bankruptcy in 2005, the original €11 value of its shares having plummeted [ tone ] by over 80% on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange . At this time Hans-Joachim Watzke was appointed CEO and streamlined the club. The response to the crisis included a 20% pay cut for all players. In 2006, in order to reduce debt, the Westfalenstadion was renamed "Signal Iduna Park" after a local insurance company. The naming rights agreement ran until 2021. Dortmund suffered a miserable start to the 2005–06 season, but rallied to finish seventh. The club was unable gain a place in the UEFA Cup via the Fair Play draw. The club's management indicated that the club again showed a profit; this was largely related to the sale of David Odonkor to Real Betis and Tomáš Rosický to Arsenal . In the 2006–07 season, Dortmund unexpectedly faced serious relegation trouble for the first time in years. Dortmund went through three coaches, and appointed Thomas Doll on 13 March 2007, after dropping to just one point above the relegation zone. Christoph Metzelder also left Borussia Dortmund on a free transfer. In the 2007–08 season, Dortmund finished 13th in the Bundesliga table, but reached the DFB-Pokal final against Bayern Munich, where they lost 2–1 in extra time. The final appearance qualified Dortmund for the UEFA Cup , because Bayern had already qualified for the Champions League . [ citation needed ] Thomas Doll resigned on 19 May 2008 and was replaced by Jürgen Klopp . Klopp era and return to prominence [ edit ] Borussia Dortmund players celebrate winning the Bundesliga in 2011 . In the 2009–10 season, Klopp's Dortmund improved on the season before, finishing fifth in the Bundesliga to qualify for the UEFA Europa League . The team missed an opportunity to qualify for the Champions League when they did not beat eighth-place VfL Wolfsburg and 14th-place SC Freiburg in the final two matches of the campaign. Entering the 2010–11 season, Dortmund fielded a young and vibrant roster. On 4 December 2010, Borussia became Herbstmeister ("Autumn Champion"), an unofficial accolade going to the league leader at the winter break. They did this three matches before the break, sharing the record for having achieved this earliest with Eintracht Frankfurt (1993–94) and 1. FC Kaiserslautern (1997–98). On 30 April 2011, the club beat 1. FC Nürnberg 2–0 at home, while second-place Bayer Leverkusen lost, leaving Dortmund eight points clear with two games to play. This championship equalled the seven national titles held by rivals Schalke 04, and guaranteed a spot in the 2011–12 Champions League group stages. One year later, Dortmund successfully defended of its Bundesliga title with a win over Borussia Mönchengladbach , again on the 32nd match day. By the 34th and final match day, Dortmund had set a new record with the most points—81—gained by a club in one Bundesliga season. This was surpassed the following season by Bayern Munich's 91 points. The club's fifth Bundesliga title and eighth German championship overall placed it third in total national titles , allowing the club to wear two stars above its crest in recognition of the team's five Bundesliga titles. The club capped its successful 2011–12 season by winning the double for the first time, beating Bayern 5–2 in the final of the DFB-Pokal . Borussia Dortmund are one of four German clubs to win the Bundesliga and DFB-Pokal double , along with Bayern Munich, 1. FC Köln and Werder Bremen . The club was voted Team of the Year 2011 at the annual Sportler des Jahres (German Sports Personality of the Year) awards. Borussia Dortmund fans at Wembley Stadium during the 2013 Champions League final Borussia Dortmund ended the 2012–13 season in second place in the Bundesliga . Dortmund played in their second UEFA Champions League final against Bayern Munich in the first ever all-German club final at Wembley Stadium on 25 May 2013, which they lost 2–1. In the 2013–14 season , Borussia Dortmund won the 2013 DFL-Supercup 4–2 against rivals Bayern Munich. The 2013–14 season started with a five-game winning streak for Dortmund, their best start to a season. Despite a promising start, however, their season saw injuries to several key players, seeing them stoop as low as fourth place in the table, and with a depleted squad could go only as far as the quarter-finals of the Champions League , losing 3–2 on aggregate to Real Madrid. Nevertheless, Dortmund ended their season on a high note by finishing second in the Bundesliga and reaching the 2014 DFB-Pokal final , losing 0–2 to Bayern in extra time. They then began their 2014–15 season by defeating Bayern in the 2014 DFL-Supercup 2–0. However, this victory did not affect the squad's solidity in performance at the start of the ensuing season, with Dortmund recording various [ vague ] results such as a 0–1 loss to Hamburger SV and two 2–2 draws against VfB Stuttgart and Bundesliga newcomers Paderborn 07 . During the winter, Dortmund fell to the bottom of the table on multiple occasions, but escaped the relegation zone after four consecutive wins in February. On 15 April 2015, Jürgen Klopp announced that after seven years, he would be leaving Dortmund. Four days later, Dortmund announced that Thomas Tuchel would replace Klopp at the end of the season. Klopp's final season, however, ended on high note, [ tone ] rising and finishing seventh after facing relegation, gaining a DFB-Pokal final with VfL Wolfsburg and qualifying for the 2015–16 Europa League . Post-Klopp era [ edit ] In the 2015–16 season , Dortmund started off winning 4–0 against Borussia Mönchengladbach on the opening day, followed by five-straight wins which took them to the top of the Bundesliga. After the eighth matchday, they were surpassed by Bayern Munich following an unlucky draw with 1899 Hoffenheim . Dortmund kept their performances up, winning 24 out of 34 league games and becoming the best Bundesliga runner-up team of all time. In the Europa League , they advanced to the quarter-finals, getting knocked out by a Jürgen Klopp-led Liverpool in a dramatic comeback at Anfield , where defender Dejan Lovren scored a late goal to make it 4–3 to Liverpool and 5–4 on aggregate. In the 2015–16 DFB-Pokal , for the third-straight year, Dortmund made it to the competition final , but lost to Bayern Munich on penalties. On 11 April 2017, three explosions occurred near the team's bus on its way to a Champions League match against AS Monaco at the Signal Iduna Park . Defender Marc Bartra was injured, and taken to hospital. Dortmund lost the game 2–3 to AS Monaco. Dortmund manager Tuchel blamed the loss on the ignorant decision by UEFA . UEFA said that the team made no objection to playing, and that the decision was made in compliance with the club and local law enforcement. In the second leg, Dortmund lost 1–3, leaving the aggregate score at 3–6, causing them to be eliminated from that year's UEFA Champions League. On 26 April, Dortmund defeated Bayern Munich 3–2 in Munich to advance to the 2017 DFB-Pokal final , Dortmund's fourth consecutive final and fifth in six seasons. On 27 May, Dortmund won the 2016–17 DFB-Pokal 2–1 over Eintracht Frankfurt with the winner coming from a penalty converted by Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang . Ahead of the 2017–18 season, Thomas Tuchel stepped down as manager. The Dortmund board made a decision to hire Peter Bosz as the new manager and head coach. Although Bosz got off to a record-breaking start in the team's first 7 games, what followed was 20 games without a win, after which he was relieved of his staff role. [ vague ] Peter Stöger was announced as the interim coach. During the January window of the same season, Aubameyang and Bartra both left the club. Stöger bought Manuel Akanji of FC Basel for a fee of €21.5 million and Michy Batshuayi on a six-month loan from Chelsea . Stöger coached Dortmund for the rest of the season, granting them a fourth-place finish in the Bundesliga before stepping down at the end of the season. In the summer of 2018, Dortmund appointed former OGC Nice coach, Lucien Favre as their manager/head coach. After a very busy transfer window for the team, seeing eight new players arrive at the club for the first team squad, Dortmund performed strongly, chasing Bayern Munich for the title race down to the last matchday, narrowly missing out on the league title by two points and earning Lucien Favre a contract extension. A four-part Amazon Prime Video documentary series was created, about the same season, named Inside Borussia Dortmund . The next season, Dortmund announced a few big-name signings with the intent of winning the Bundesliga title. Although they won the DFL Supercup, this was their only silverware of the season. After a scrappy first half of the season, they changed their tactics and made a few more transfers in the January Window. They were eliminated in both the DFB-Pokal and the UEFA Champions League as well. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic in Germany , the season stopped abruptly. Once the season restarted, Dortmund looked better, [ according to whom? ] but their performances were not enough to stop a dominant Bayern Munich side from winning the Bundesliga title. They finished the 2019–20 season in second place after beating RB Leipzig in matchweek 33 due to a brace from Erling Haaland . Dortmund got off to a rather shaky start in the 2020–21 season. They lost the DFL-Supercup and had an inconsistent set of results in the Champions League and the Bundesliga. After a 5–1 defeat to Stuttgart in Matchday 11, Lucien Favre was relieved of his managerial duties. Assistant manager Edin Terzić was placed as the caretaker for the rest of the season. Under Terzić, Dortmund finished third on the final matchday of the Bundesliga and was eliminated in the quarter-finals of the Champions League in a match against Manchester City. The team then won the DFB-Pokal, defeating RB Leipzig 4–1 in the final . Marco Rose was appointed manager for the 2021–22 season, with Terzić being appointed as the club's new technical director. Rose lead the club to a second-place finish in the league, but was sacked ahead of the 2022–23 season with Terzić being reappointed as manager. Before the final match day of that season, Dortmund were top of the league table, though they later lost the Bundesliga title on goal difference to Bayern Munich after a 2–2 home draw against Mainz. After selling star player Jude Bellingham to Real Madrid for €103 million, Dortmund had a disappointing Bundesliga campaign in the 2023–24 season, finishing fifth, but experienced more success in the UEFA Champions League, knocking out PSV Eindhoven , Atlético Madrid and PSG in the knockout stages to reach the final for the first time in eleven years, where they lost 2–0 to Real Madrid . Shortly before the end of the season, BVB management announced that the military weapons manufacturer Rheinmetall would be the future sponsor. The partnership includes the use of high-reach advertising space, marketing rights as well as event and hospitality offers in the stadium and on the club premises and a payment of one million euro per year until 2027 by Rheinmetall. The sponsorship has been heavily criticised by BVB fans. ^ "A turbulent founding on 19/12/1909" . BVB Club Website . Archived from the original on 18 October 2015 . Retrieved 9 August 2014 . ^ Hesse, Uli (23 August 2018). Building the Yellow Wall: The Incredible Rise and Cult Appeal of Borussia Dortmund: WINNER OF THE FOOTBALL BOOK OF THE YEAR 2019 . Orion. ISBN 978-1-4746-0626-4 . ^ "Paul Lambert – The Norwich wizard" . ESPN. 4 May 2011. Archived from the original on 23 December 2011 . Retrieved 28 November 2011 . ^ "Norwich City manager Paul Lambert on his vision for the future" . Sunday Herald . 6 September 2009. Archived from the original on 28 May 2013 . Retrieved 28 November 2011 . ^ "Revealed: The Joy of Six: British and Irish footballers abroad" . The Guardian . London. 25 November 2011. Archived from the original on 4 November 2020 . Retrieved 28 November 2011 . ^ Leme de Arruda, Marcelo (2 August 1999). "Intercontinental Club Cup 1997" . Rec.Sport.Soccer Statistics Foundation . Archived from the original on 9 September 2022 . Retrieved 7 May 2012 . ^ "Borussia Dortmund v Real Madrid – Champions League Preview" . theoriginalwinger.com . 23 April 2013. Archived from the original on 13 September 2013 . Retrieved 17 August 2013 . ^ "Chapuisat: Dortmund v Madrid will be 'incredible' " . UEFA. 22 April 2013. Archived from the original on 21 December 2016 . Retrieved 11 December 2016 . ^ "Borussia Dortmund fans and investors aren't on the same team" . Deutsche Welle. 13 May 2011. Archived from the original on 13 July 2018 . Retrieved 12 July 2018 . ^ "Bayern Munich vs Borussia Dortmund: The first all-German Champions League final" . India Today . 24 May 2013. Archived from the original on 25 August 2020 . Retrieved 17 August 2013 . ^ Von abendblatt.de (6 February 2012). "Pikantes Geheimnis – Hoeneß plaudert: "Haben BVB zwei Millionen Euro geliehen" – Sport – Fußball – Hamburger Abendblatt" (in German). Abendblatt.de. Archived from the original on 7 March 2013 . Retrieved 5 March 2013 . ^ sid (4 December 2010). "Dortmund vorzeitig Bundesliga-Herbstmeister" (in German). Focus online. Archived from the original on 19 July 2011 . Retrieved 5 December 2010 . ^ "Borussia Dortmund wrap up Bundesliga title" . The Guardian . 30 April 2011 . Retrieved 1 May 2011 . ^ "81 Punkte! BVB bester Meister aller Zeiten" [81 Points! BVB is the best Champion of all Time] (in German). SportBild.de. 5 May 2012. Archived from the original on 8 May 2012 . Retrieved 12 May 2012 . ^ "Dortmund, der beste Deutsche Meister aller Zeiten" [Dortmund, the best German Champion of all Time]. Die Welt (in German). 5 May 2012. Archived from the original on 8 February 2017 . Retrieved 12 May 2012 . ^ "Super Bayern rewrite the history books" . Bayern Munich . 18 May 2013. Archived from the original on 8 June 2013 . Retrieved 18 May 2013 . ^ "Die Double-Gewinner des deutschen Fussballs" [The double-winners of German football] (in German). rp.online. 13 May 2012. Archived from the original on 18 June 2013 . Retrieved 26 April 2013 . ^ "UEFA Champions League 2013 – Dortmund-Bayern Players – UEFA" . Archived from the original on 3 June 2013 . Retrieved 8 May 2013 . ^ "Dortmund prevail over Bayern in Supercup thriller" . Archived from the original on 6 November 2013. ^ "Final" . Archived from the original on 22 April 2014 . Retrieved 17 July 2017 . ^ "Borussia Dortmund Termine 14–15" [Borussia Dortmund 2014–15 Results]. Kicker (in German). Archived from the original on 13 March 2019 . Retrieved 24 November 2014 . ^ "Final" . Archived from the original on 3 March 2015. ^ "Final" . Espn.com . 15 April 2015. Archived from the original on 9 August 2018 . Retrieved 7 June 2015 . ^ "Final" . 19 April 2015. Archived from the original on 9 August 2018 . Retrieved 7 June 2015 . ^ "B Dortmund 4–0 B Mgladbach" . BBC Sport . Archived from the original on 19 September 2016 . Retrieved 8 August 2016 . ^ "Verflixte 12! Rudy beendet Dortmunds starke Serie: TSG Hoffenheim – Borussia Dortmund 1:1 (1:0)" . kicker online . Archived from the original on 20 August 2016 . Retrieved 8 August 2016 . ^ "Borussia Dortmund: Der beste Zweitplatzierte aller Zeiten – Platz eins unerreichbar?" . 15 February 2016. Archived from the original on 19 September 2016 . Retrieved 8 August 2016 . ^ Anfield, Andy Hunter at (15 April 2016). "Liverpool's Lovren sinks Borussia Dortmund in remarkable comeback" . The Guardian . ISSN 0261-3077 . Archived from the original on 29 May 2019 . Retrieved 8 August 2016 . ^ "DFB-Pokal: Bayern holen Pokalsieg im Elfmeterschießen" . Die Zeit . 22 May 2016. ISSN 0044-2070 . Archived from the original on 25 July 2016 . Retrieved 8 August 2016 . ^ "Borussia Dortmund football team bus hit by explosions" . BBC News . 11 April 2017. Archived from the original on 8 April 2019 . Retrieved 11 April 2017 . ^ "Marc Bartra hurt in explosions near Dortmund team bus, game postponed" . ESPNFC.com . 11 April 2017. Archived from the original on 18 April 2020 . Retrieved 11 April 2017 . ^ "Borussia Dortmund: Thomas Tuchel says club 'ignored' over Monaco tie" . BBC Sport . 12 April 2017. Archived from the original on 11 December 2020 . Retrieved 12 April 2017 . ^ "Eintracht Frankfurt 1–2 Borussia Dortmund" . BBC Sport . 27 May 2017. Archived from the original on 25 January 2021 . Retrieved 14 May 2021 . ^ "Borussia Dortmund trennt sich von Trainer Bosz" . kicker . ^ "Borussia Dortmund sack Peter Bosz & appoint Peter Stoger" . BBC Sport . 10 December 2017. Archived from the original on 14 May 2021 . Retrieved 14 May 2021 . ^ "Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang: Arsenal sign Borussia Dortmund striker for £56m" . BBC Sport . 31 January 2018. Archived from the original on 14 May 2021 . Retrieved 14 May 2021 . ^ "Real Betis signs Spanish international Marc Bartra" . Real Betis. 30 January 2018. Archived from the original on 31 January 2018 . Retrieved 14 May 2021 . ^ "Borussia Dortmund sign Manuel Akanji from Basel" . Sky Sports. 16 January 2018. Archived from the original on 9 November 2020 . Retrieved 14 May 2021 . ^ Simon Stone (31 January 2018). "Michy Batshuayi: Borussia Dortmund agree loan deal for Chelsea striker" . BBC Sport . Archived from the original on 14 May 2021 . Retrieved 14 May 2021 . ^ "Peter Stöger to leave Borussia Dortmund after sealing Champions League return" . Bundesliga. Archived from the original on 14 May 2021 . Retrieved 14 May 2021 . ^ "Terzic: I can hardly wait to get started " . Archived from the original on 17 December 2021 . Retrieved 17 December 2021 . ^ "Edin Terzic to become BVB head coach" . Borussia Dortmund . 23 May 2022 . Retrieved 23 May 2022 . ^ "Dortmund agony, Bayern joy – and a rogue sprinkler: How Bundesliga drama unfolded" . The Athletic . 27 May 2023 . Retrieved 27 May 2023 . ^ "Jude Bellingham's move to Real Madrid complete" . Borussia Dortmund. 14 June 2023 . Retrieved 14 June 2023 . ^ " "Das war's dann": BVB-Fans nach Millionendeal mit Rheinmetall auf den Barrikaden" . www.wa.de (in German). 30 May 2024 . Retrieved 10 June 2024 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Foundation and early years

Foundation and early years [ edit ] Borussia Dortmund in 1913 The club was founded on 19 December 1909 by a group of young men unhappy with the Catholic church-sponsored Trinity Youth , where they played football under the guidance of the local parish priest. The priest, Father Dewald was blocked at the door when he tried to break up the organising meeting being held in a room of the local pub, Zum Wildschütz . The founders were Franz and Paul Braun, Henry Cleve, Hans Debest, Paul Dziendzielle, Franz, Julius and Wilhelm Jacobi, Hans Kahn, Gustav Müller, Franz Risse, Fritz Schulte, Hans Siebold, August Tönnesmann, Heinrich and Robert Unger, Fritz Weber and Franz Wendt. The name Borussia is Latin for Prussia but was taken from Borussia beer from the nearby Borussia brewery in Dortmund. The team began playing in blue and white striped shirts with a red sash, and black shorts. In 1913, they donned the black and yellow stripes for the first time. Over the next decades the club had only modest success playing in local leagues. They came close to bankruptcy in 1929 when an attempt to boost the club's fortunes by signing some paid professional footballers failed miserably and left the team deep in debt. They survived only through the generosity of a local supporter who covered the team's shortfall out of his own pocket. The 1930s saw the rise of the Third Reich , which restructured sports and football organisations throughout the nation to suit the regime's goals. Borussia' s president was replaced when he refused to join the Nazi Party , and a couple of members who surreptitiously used the club's offices to produce anti-Nazi pamphlets were executed in the last days of the war. The club did have greater success in the newly established Gauliga Westfalen , but would have to wait until after the Second World War to make a breakthrough. It was during this time that Borussia developed its intense rivalry with Schalke 04 of suburban Gelsenkirchen , the most successful side of the era (see Revierderby ). Like every other organisation in Germany, Borussia was dissolved by the Allied occupation authorities after the war in an attempt to distance the country's institutions from its recent Nazi past. There was a short-lived attempt to merge the club with two others – Werksportgemeinschaft Hoesch and Freier Sportverein 98 – as Sportgemeinschaft Borussia von 1898 , but it was as Ballspiel-Verein Borussia ( BVB ) that they made their first appearance in the national league final in 1949. ^ "A turbulent founding on 19/12/1909" . BVB Club Website . Archived from the original on 18 October 2015 . Retrieved 9 August 2014 . ^ Hesse, Uli (23 August 2018). Building the Yellow Wall: The Incredible Rise and Cult Appeal of Borussia Dortmund: WINNER OF THE FOOTBALL BOOK OF THE YEAR 2019 . Orion. ISBN 978-1-4746-0626-4 .

______________________________________________________________________

### First national titles

First national titles [ edit ] Historical chart of Borussia Dortmund league performance Between 1946 and 1963, Borussia featured in the Oberliga West , a first division league which dominated German football through the late 1950s. In 1949 , Borussia reached the final in Stuttgart against VfR Mannheim , which they lost 2–3 after extra time. The club claimed its first national title in 1956 with a 4–2 win against Karlsruher SC . One year later, Borussia defeated Hamburger SV 4–1 to win their second national title . After this coup, [ tone ] the three Alfredos ( Alfred Preißler , Alfred Kelbassa and Alfred Niepieklo ) were legends [ tone ] in Dortmund. In 1963 , Borussia won the last edition of the German Football Championship (before the introduction of the new Bundesliga ) to secure their third national title.

______________________________________________________________________

### Bundesliga debut

Bundesliga debut [ edit ] In 1962, the DFB met in Dortmund and voted to establish a professional football league in Germany, to begin play in August 1963 as the Bundesliga . Borussia Dortmund earned its place among the first sixteen clubs to play in the league by winning the last pre-Bundesliga national championship. Runners-up 1. FC Köln also earned an automatic berth. Dortmund's Friedhelm Konietzka scored the first-ever Bundesliga goal a minute into the match, which they would eventually lose 2–3 to Werder Bremen . In 1965 , Dortmund won its first DFB-Pokal . In 1966, Dortmund won the European Cup Winners' Cup 2–1 against Liverpool in extra time, with the goals coming from Sigfried Held and Reinhard Libuda . In the same year , however, the team lost their top position on the Bundesliga by losing four of their last five league games and finishing second, three points behind champions 1860 München , most of whose success came on the strength of the play of Konietzka, recently transferred from Dortmund. The 1970s were characterised by financial problems, relegation from the Bundesliga in 1972, and the opening of the Westfalenstadion , named after its home region Westphalia in 1974. The club returned to the Bundesliga in 1976. Dortmund continued to have financial problems through the 1980s. BVB avoided being relegated in 1986 by winning a third decisive playoff game against Fortuna Köln after finishing the regular season in 16th place. Dortmund did not have any significant success again until a 4–1 DFB-Pokal win in 1989 against Werder Bremen. It was Horst Köppel 's first trophy as a manager. [ citation needed ] Dortmund then won the 1989 DFL-Supercup 4–3 against rivals Bayern Munich .

______________________________________________________________________

### Golden age – the 1990s

Golden age – the 1990s [ edit ] After a tenth-place finish in the Bundesliga in 1991 , manager Horst Köppel was sacked and manager Ottmar Hitzfeld was hired. In 1992 , Hitzfeld led Borussia Dortmund to a second-place finish in the Bundesliga, and would have won the title had VfB Stuttgart not won their last game to become champions instead. Along with a fourth-place finish in the Bundesliga, Dortmund made it to the 1993 UEFA Cup final , which they lost 6–1 on aggregate to Juventus . In spite of this result, Borussia walked away with DM 25 million under the prize money pool system in place at the time for German sides participating in the Cup. Thanks to the prize money, Dortmund was able to sign players who later brought them numerous honours in the 1990s. Under the captaincy of 1996 European Footballer of the Year Matthias Sammer , Borussia Dortmund won back-to-back Bundesliga titles in 1995 and 1996 . Dortmund also won the DFL-Supercup against Mönchengladbach in 1995 and 1. FC Kaiserslautern in 1996 . In 1996–97 the team reached its first European Cup final . In a memorable match at the Olympiastadion in Munich , Dortmund faced the holders Juventus. Karl-Heinz Riedle put Dortmund ahead, shooting under goalkeeper Angelo Peruzzi from a cross by Paul Lambert . Riedle then made it two with a bullet header from a corner kick. In the second half, Alessandro Del Piero pulled one back for Juventus with a back heel. Then 20-year-old substitute and Dortmund-born Lars Ricken latched onto a through pass by Andreas Möller . Only 16 seconds after coming on to the pitch, Ricken chipped Peruzzi in the Juventus goal from over 20 yards out with his first touch of the ball. With Zinedine Zidane unable to make an impression for Juventus against the close marking of Lambert, Dortmund lifted the trophy with a 3–1 victory. Hitzfeld's successful managerial reign then ended, with Nevio Scala being appointed as his successor. Dortmund then beat Brazilian club Cruzeiro 2–0 in the 1997 Intercontinental Cup final to become world club champions. Borussia Dortmund were the second German club to win the Intercontinental Cup, after Bayern Munich in 1976 . As defending champions, Dortmund reached the Champions League semi-final in 1998. The team was missing key players from the start of the season when they played Real Madrid in the 1998 semi-final. [ vague ] Sammer's career was shortened by injury and only played three first team games after the 1997 Champions League win. Lambert had left in November to return to play in Scotland. Möller missed the first leg as did Kohler who missed both games in the tie. Real won the first leg 2–0 at home. Dortmund played better in the second leg, but did not take their chances. The club exited 2–0 on aggregate. ^ "Paul Lambert – The Norwich wizard" . ESPN. 4 May 2011. Archived from the original on 23 December 2011 . Retrieved 28 November 2011 . ^ "Norwich City manager Paul Lambert on his vision for the future" . Sunday Herald . 6 September 2009. Archived from the original on 28 May 2013 . Retrieved 28 November 2011 . ^ "Revealed: The Joy of Six: British and Irish footballers abroad" . The Guardian . London. 25 November 2011. Archived from the original on 4 November 2020 . Retrieved 28 November 2011 . ^ Leme de Arruda, Marcelo (2 August 1999). "Intercontinental Club Cup 1997" . Rec.Sport.Soccer Statistics Foundation . Archived from the original on 9 September 2022 . Retrieved 7 May 2012 . ^ "Borussia Dortmund v Real Madrid – Champions League Preview" . theoriginalwinger.com . 23 April 2013. Archived from the original on 13 September 2013 . Retrieved 17 August 2013 . ^ "Chapuisat: Dortmund v Madrid will be 'incredible' " . UEFA. 22 April 2013. Archived from the original on 21 December 2016 . Retrieved 11 December 2016 .

______________________________________________________________________

### 21st century and Borussia "goes public"

21st century and Borussia "goes public" [ edit ] Borussia Dortmund in 2007 In October 2000, Borussia Dortmund became the first publicly traded club on the German stock market. In 2002 , Borussia Dortmund won their third Bundesliga title. Dortmund had a remarkable run at the end of the season to overtake Bayer Leverkusen , securing the title on the final day. Manager Matthias Sammer became the first person in Borussia Dortmund history to win the Bundesliga as both a player and manager. In the same season, Borussia lost the final of the 2001–02 UEFA Cup to the Dutch club Feyenoord . Dortmund's fortunes then steadily declined for several years. Poor financial management led to a heavy debt load and the sale of their Westfalenstadion grounds. The situation was compounded by failure to advance in the 2003–04 UEFA Champions League , when the team was eliminated on penalties in the qualifying rounds by Club Brugge . In 2003, Bayern Munich loaned €2 million to Dortmund for several months to pay their payroll. Borussia was again driven to the brink of bankruptcy in 2005, the original €11 value of its shares having plummeted [ tone ] by over 80% on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange . At this time Hans-Joachim Watzke was appointed CEO and streamlined the club. The response to the crisis included a 20% pay cut for all players. In 2006, in order to reduce debt, the Westfalenstadion was renamed "Signal Iduna Park" after a local insurance company. The naming rights agreement ran until 2021. Dortmund suffered a miserable start to the 2005–06 season, but rallied to finish seventh. The club was unable gain a place in the UEFA Cup via the Fair Play draw. The club's management indicated that the club again showed a profit; this was largely related to the sale of David Odonkor to Real Betis and Tomáš Rosický to Arsenal . In the 2006–07 season, Dortmund unexpectedly faced serious relegation trouble for the first time in years. Dortmund went through three coaches, and appointed Thomas Doll on 13 March 2007, after dropping to just one point above the relegation zone. Christoph Metzelder also left Borussia Dortmund on a free transfer. In the 2007–08 season, Dortmund finished 13th in the Bundesliga table, but reached the DFB-Pokal final against Bayern Munich, where they lost 2–1 in extra time. The final appearance qualified Dortmund for the UEFA Cup , because Bayern had already qualified for the Champions League . [ citation needed ] Thomas Doll resigned on 19 May 2008 and was replaced by Jürgen Klopp . ^ "Borussia Dortmund fans and investors aren't on the same team" . Deutsche Welle. 13 May 2011. Archived from the original on 13 July 2018 . Retrieved 12 July 2018 . ^ "Bayern Munich vs Borussia Dortmund: The first all-German Champions League final" . India Today . 24 May 2013. Archived from the original on 25 August 2020 . Retrieved 17 August 2013 . ^ Von abendblatt.de (6 February 2012). "Pikantes Geheimnis – Hoeneß plaudert: "Haben BVB zwei Millionen Euro geliehen" – Sport – Fußball – Hamburger Abendblatt" (in German). Abendblatt.de. Archived from the original on 7 March 2013 . Retrieved 5 March 2013 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Klopp era and return to prominence

Klopp era and return to prominence [ edit ] Borussia Dortmund players celebrate winning the Bundesliga in 2011 . In the 2009–10 season, Klopp's Dortmund improved on the season before, finishing fifth in the Bundesliga to qualify for the UEFA Europa League . The team missed an opportunity to qualify for the Champions League when they did not beat eighth-place VfL Wolfsburg and 14th-place SC Freiburg in the final two matches of the campaign. Entering the 2010–11 season, Dortmund fielded a young and vibrant roster. On 4 December 2010, Borussia became Herbstmeister ("Autumn Champion"), an unofficial accolade going to the league leader at the winter break. They did this three matches before the break, sharing the record for having achieved this earliest with Eintracht Frankfurt (1993–94) and 1. FC Kaiserslautern (1997–98). On 30 April 2011, the club beat 1. FC Nürnberg 2–0 at home, while second-place Bayer Leverkusen lost, leaving Dortmund eight points clear with two games to play. This championship equalled the seven national titles held by rivals Schalke 04, and guaranteed a spot in the 2011–12 Champions League group stages. One year later, Dortmund successfully defended of its Bundesliga title with a win over Borussia Mönchengladbach , again on the 32nd match day. By the 34th and final match day, Dortmund had set a new record with the most points—81—gained by a club in one Bundesliga season. This was surpassed the following season by Bayern Munich's 91 points. The club's fifth Bundesliga title and eighth German championship overall placed it third in total national titles , allowing the club to wear two stars above its crest in recognition of the team's five Bundesliga titles. The club capped its successful 2011–12 season by winning the double for the first time, beating Bayern 5–2 in the final of the DFB-Pokal . Borussia Dortmund are one of four German clubs to win the Bundesliga and DFB-Pokal double , along with Bayern Munich, 1. FC Köln and Werder Bremen . The club was voted Team of the Year 2011 at the annual Sportler des Jahres (German Sports Personality of the Year) awards. Borussia Dortmund fans at Wembley Stadium during the 2013 Champions League final Borussia Dortmund ended the 2012–13 season in second place in the Bundesliga . Dortmund played in their second UEFA Champions League final against Bayern Munich in the first ever all-German club final at Wembley Stadium on 25 May 2013, which they lost 2–1. In the 2013–14 season , Borussia Dortmund won the 2013 DFL-Supercup 4–2 against rivals Bayern Munich. The 2013–14 season started with a five-game winning streak for Dortmund, their best start to a season. Despite a promising start, however, their season saw injuries to several key players, seeing them stoop as low as fourth place in the table, and with a depleted squad could go only as far as the quarter-finals of the Champions League , losing 3–2 on aggregate to Real Madrid. Nevertheless, Dortmund ended their season on a high note by finishing second in the Bundesliga and reaching the 2014 DFB-Pokal final , losing 0–2 to Bayern in extra time. They then began their 2014–15 season by defeating Bayern in the 2014 DFL-Supercup 2–0. However, this victory did not affect the squad's solidity in performance at the start of the ensuing season, with Dortmund recording various [ vague ] results such as a 0–1 loss to Hamburger SV and two 2–2 draws against VfB Stuttgart and Bundesliga newcomers Paderborn 07 . During the winter, Dortmund fell to the bottom of the table on multiple occasions, but escaped the relegation zone after four consecutive wins in February. On 15 April 2015, Jürgen Klopp announced that after seven years, he would be leaving Dortmund. Four days later, Dortmund announced that Thomas Tuchel would replace Klopp at the end of the season. Klopp's final season, however, ended on high note, [ tone ] rising and finishing seventh after facing relegation, gaining a DFB-Pokal final with VfL Wolfsburg and qualifying for the 2015–16 Europa League . ^ sid (4 December 2010). "Dortmund vorzeitig Bundesliga-Herbstmeister" (in German). Focus online. Archived from the original on 19 July 2011 . Retrieved 5 December 2010 . ^ "Borussia Dortmund wrap up Bundesliga title" . The Guardian . 30 April 2011 . Retrieved 1 May 2011 . ^ "81 Punkte! BVB bester Meister aller Zeiten" [81 Points! BVB is the best Champion of all Time] (in German). SportBild.de. 5 May 2012. Archived from the original on 8 May 2012 . Retrieved 12 May 2012 . ^ "Dortmund, der beste Deutsche Meister aller Zeiten" [Dortmund, the best German Champion of all Time]. Die Welt (in German). 5 May 2012. Archived from the original on 8 February 2017 . Retrieved 12 May 2012 . ^ "Super Bayern rewrite the history books" . Bayern Munich . 18 May 2013. Archived from the original on 8 June 2013 . Retrieved 18 May 2013 . ^ "Die Double-Gewinner des deutschen Fussballs" [The double-winners of German football] (in German). rp.online. 13 May 2012. Archived from the original on 18 June 2013 . Retrieved 26 April 2013 . ^ "UEFA Champions League 2013 – Dortmund-Bayern Players – UEFA" . Archived from the original on 3 June 2013 . Retrieved 8 May 2013 . ^ "Dortmund prevail over Bayern in Supercup thriller" . Archived from the original on 6 November 2013. ^ "Final" . Archived from the original on 22 April 2014 . Retrieved 17 July 2017 . ^ "Borussia Dortmund Termine 14–15" [Borussia Dortmund 2014–15 Results]. Kicker (in German). Archived from the original on 13 March 2019 . Retrieved 24 November 2014 . ^ "Final" . Archived from the original on 3 March 2015. ^ "Final" . Espn.com . 15 April 2015. Archived from the original on 9 August 2018 . Retrieved 7 June 2015 . ^ "Final" . 19 April 2015. Archived from the original on 9 August 2018 . Retrieved 7 June 2015 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Post-Klopp era

Post-Klopp era [ edit ] In the 2015–16 season , Dortmund started off winning 4–0 against Borussia Mönchengladbach on the opening day, followed by five-straight wins which took them to the top of the Bundesliga. After the eighth matchday, they were surpassed by Bayern Munich following an unlucky draw with 1899 Hoffenheim . Dortmund kept their performances up, winning 24 out of 34 league games and becoming the best Bundesliga runner-up team of all time. In the Europa League , they advanced to the quarter-finals, getting knocked out by a Jürgen Klopp-led Liverpool in a dramatic comeback at Anfield , where defender Dejan Lovren scored a late goal to make it 4–3 to Liverpool and 5–4 on aggregate. In the 2015–16 DFB-Pokal , for the third-straight year, Dortmund made it to the competition final , but lost to Bayern Munich on penalties. On 11 April 2017, three explosions occurred near the team's bus on its way to a Champions League match against AS Monaco at the Signal Iduna Park . Defender Marc Bartra was injured, and taken to hospital. Dortmund lost the game 2–3 to AS Monaco. Dortmund manager Tuchel blamed the loss on the ignorant decision by UEFA . UEFA said that the team made no objection to playing, and that the decision was made in compliance with the club and local law enforcement. In the second leg, Dortmund lost 1–3, leaving the aggregate score at 3–6, causing them to be eliminated from that year's UEFA Champions League. On 26 April, Dortmund defeated Bayern Munich 3–2 in Munich to advance to the 2017 DFB-Pokal final , Dortmund's fourth consecutive final and fifth in six seasons. On 27 May, Dortmund won the 2016–17 DFB-Pokal 2–1 over Eintracht Frankfurt with the winner coming from a penalty converted by Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang . Ahead of the 2017–18 season, Thomas Tuchel stepped down as manager. The Dortmund board made a decision to hire Peter Bosz as the new manager and head coach. Although Bosz got off to a record-breaking start in the team's first 7 games, what followed was 20 games without a win, after which he was relieved of his staff role. [ vague ] Peter Stöger was announced as the interim coach. During the January window of the same season, Aubameyang and Bartra both left the club. Stöger bought Manuel Akanji of FC Basel for a fee of €21.5 million and Michy Batshuayi on a six-month loan from Chelsea . Stöger coached Dortmund for the rest of the season, granting them a fourth-place finish in the Bundesliga before stepping down at the end of the season. In the summer of 2018, Dortmund appointed former OGC Nice coach, Lucien Favre as their manager/head coach. After a very busy transfer window for the team, seeing eight new players arrive at the club for the first team squad, Dortmund performed strongly, chasing Bayern Munich for the title race down to the last matchday, narrowly missing out on the league title by two points and earning Lucien Favre a contract extension. A four-part Amazon Prime Video documentary series was created, about the same season, named Inside Borussia Dortmund . The next season, Dortmund announced a few big-name signings with the intent of winning the Bundesliga title. Although they won the DFL Supercup, this was their only silverware of the season. After a scrappy first half of the season, they changed their tactics and made a few more transfers in the January Window. They were eliminated in both the DFB-Pokal and the UEFA Champions League as well. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic in Germany , the season stopped abruptly. Once the season restarted, Dortmund looked better, [ according to whom? ] but their performances were not enough to stop a dominant Bayern Munich side from winning the Bundesliga title. They finished the 2019–20 season in second place after beating RB Leipzig in matchweek 33 due to a brace from Erling Haaland . Dortmund got off to a rather shaky start in the 2020–21 season. They lost the DFL-Supercup and had an inconsistent set of results in the Champions League and the Bundesliga. After a 5–1 defeat to Stuttgart in Matchday 11, Lucien Favre was relieved of his managerial duties. Assistant manager Edin Terzić was placed as the caretaker for the rest of the season. Under Terzić, Dortmund finished third on the final matchday of the Bundesliga and was eliminated in the quarter-finals of the Champions League in a match against Manchester City. The team then won the DFB-Pokal, defeating RB Leipzig 4–1 in the final . Marco Rose was appointed manager for the 2021–22 season, with Terzić being appointed as the club's new technical director. Rose lead the club to a second-place finish in the league, but was sacked ahead of the 2022–23 season with Terzić being reappointed as manager. Before the final match day of that season, Dortmund were top of the league table, though they later lost the Bundesliga title on goal difference to Bayern Munich after a 2–2 home draw against Mainz. After selling star player Jude Bellingham to Real Madrid for €103 million, Dortmund had a disappointing Bundesliga campaign in the 2023–24 season, finishing fifth, but experienced more success in the UEFA Champions League, knocking out PSV Eindhoven , Atlético Madrid and PSG in the knockout stages to reach the final for the first time in eleven years, where they lost 2–0 to Real Madrid . Shortly before the end of the season, BVB management announced that the military weapons manufacturer Rheinmetall would be the future sponsor. The partnership includes the use of high-reach advertising space, marketing rights as well as event and hospitality offers in the stadium and on the club premises and a payment of one million euro per year until 2027 by Rheinmetall. The sponsorship has been heavily criticised by BVB fans. ^ "B Dortmund 4–0 B Mgladbach" . BBC Sport . Archived from the original on 19 September 2016 . Retrieved 8 August 2016 . ^ "Verflixte 12! Rudy beendet Dortmunds starke Serie: TSG Hoffenheim – Borussia Dortmund 1:1 (1:0)" . kicker online . Archived from the original on 20 August 2016 . Retrieved 8 August 2016 . ^ "Borussia Dortmund: Der beste Zweitplatzierte aller Zeiten – Platz eins unerreichbar?" . 15 February 2016. Archived from the original on 19 September 2016 . Retrieved 8 August 2016 . ^ Anfield, Andy Hunter at (15 April 2016). "Liverpool's Lovren sinks Borussia Dortmund in remarkable comeback" . The Guardian . ISSN 0261-3077 . Archived from the original on 29 May 2019 . Retrieved 8 August 2016 . ^ "DFB-Pokal: Bayern holen Pokalsieg im Elfmeterschießen" . Die Zeit . 22 May 2016. ISSN 0044-2070 . Archived from the original on 25 July 2016 . Retrieved 8 August 2016 . ^ "Borussia Dortmund football team bus hit by explosions" . BBC News . 11 April 2017. Archived from the original on 8 April 2019 . Retrieved 11 April 2017 . ^ "Marc Bartra hurt in explosions near Dortmund team bus, game postponed" . ESPNFC.com . 11 April 2017. Archived from the original on 18 April 2020 . Retrieved 11 April 2017 . ^ "Borussia Dortmund: Thomas Tuchel says club 'ignored' over Monaco tie" . BBC Sport . 12 April 2017. Archived from the original on 11 December 2020 . Retrieved 12 April 2017 . ^ "Eintracht Frankfurt 1–2 Borussia Dortmund" . BBC Sport . 27 May 2017. Archived from the original on 25 January 2021 . Retrieved 14 May 2021 . ^ "Borussia Dortmund trennt sich von Trainer Bosz" . kicker . ^ "Borussia Dortmund sack Peter Bosz & appoint Peter Stoger" . BBC Sport . 10 December 2017. Archived from the original on 14 May 2021 . Retrieved 14 May 2021 . ^ "Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang: Arsenal sign Borussia Dortmund striker for £56m" . BBC Sport . 31 January 2018. Archived from the original on 14 May 2021 . Retrieved 14 May 2021 . ^ "Real Betis signs Spanish international Marc Bartra" . Real Betis. 30 January 2018. Archived from the original on 31 January 2018 . Retrieved 14 May 2021 . ^ "Borussia Dortmund sign Manuel Akanji from Basel" . Sky Sports. 16 January 2018. Archived from the original on 9 November 2020 . Retrieved 14 May 2021 . ^ Simon Stone (31 January 2018). "Michy Batshuayi: Borussia Dortmund agree loan deal for Chelsea striker" . BBC Sport . Archived from the original on 14 May 2021 . Retrieved 14 May 2021 . ^ "Peter Stöger to leave Borussia Dortmund after sealing Champions League return" . Bundesliga. Archived from the original on 14 May 2021 . Retrieved 14 May 2021 . ^ "Terzic: I can hardly wait to get started " . Archived from the original on 17 December 2021 . Retrieved 17 December 2021 . ^ "Edin Terzic to become BVB head coach" . Borussia Dortmund . 23 May 2022 . Retrieved 23 May 2022 . ^ "Dortmund agony, Bayern joy – and a rogue sprinkler: How Bundesliga drama unfolded" . The Athletic . 27 May 2023 . Retrieved 27 May 2023 . ^ "Jude Bellingham's move to Real Madrid complete" . Borussia Dortmund. 14 June 2023 . Retrieved 14 June 2023 . ^ " "Das war's dann": BVB-Fans nach Millionendeal mit Rheinmetall auf den Barrikaden" . www.wa.de (in German). 30 May 2024 . Retrieved 10 June 2024 .

______________________________________________________________________

## Crest

Crest [ edit ] 1945–1964 1964–1974 1974–1976 and 1978–1993 1976–1978 1993–present 2012–present

______________________________________________________________________

## Grounds

Grounds [ edit ] Main articles: Westfalenstadion and Stadion Rote Erde Signal Iduna Park is the biggest stadium in Germany. The Borusseum , a museum about Borussia Dortmund Stadiums [ edit ] The Westfalenstadion is the home stadium of Borussia Dortmund, Germany's largest stadium and the seventh-largest in Europe. The stadium was named "Signal Iduna Park" after insurance company Signal Iduna purchased the rights to name the stadium until 2021. This name, however, could not be used when hosting FIFA and UEFA events, since these governing bodies have policies forbidding corporate sponsorship from companies that are not official tournament partners. During the 2006 World Cup , the stadium was referred to as "FIFA World Cup Stadium, Dortmund", while in UEFA club matches, it is known as "BVB Stadion Dortmund". The stadium currently [ when? ] hosts up to 81,359 spectators (standing and seated) for league matches and 65,829 seated spectators for international matches. [ contradictory ] For these, the characteristic southern grandstand is re-equipped with seats to conform to FIFA regulations. In 1974, the Westfalenstadion replaced the Stadion Rote Erde , which is located next door and serves now as the stadium of Borussia Dortmund II . After the increasing popularity of Borussia Dortmund in the 1960s, it became obvious that the traditional ground was too small for the increasing number of Borussia Dortmund supporters. The city of Dortmund, however, was not able to finance a new stadium and federal institutions were unwilling to help. But in 1971, Dortmund was selected to replace the city of Cologne , which was forced to withdraw its plans to host games in the 1974 World Cup . The funds originally set aside for the projected stadium in Cologne were thus re-allocated to Dortmund, and a new stadium became reality. The Westfalenstadion has undergone several renovations throughout the years to increase the size of the stadium, including an expansion of the stadium for the 2006 World Cup. In 2008, the Borusseum , a museum about Borussia Dortmund, opened in the stadium. In 2011, Borussia Dortmund agreed to a partnership with Q-Cells . The company installed 8,768 solar cells on the roof of the Westfalenstadion to generate up to 860,000 kWh per year. Borussia Dortmund has the highest average attendance of any football club worldwide. In 2014, it was estimated that each of the club's home games was attended by around 1,000 British spectators, drawn to the team by its low ticket prices compared to the Premier League . Training ground [ edit ] Borussia Dortmund's training ground and academy base Hohenbuschei is located in Brackel, a district of Dortmund. Inside the complex, there are physical fitness and rehabilitation robotics areas, physiotherapy and massage rooms, and remedial and hydrotherapy pools . The facility also includes sauna rooms, steam rooms and weight rooms , classrooms, conference halls , offices for the BVB front office , a restaurant, and a TV studio to interview the BVB professional footballers and coaching staff for BVB total! , the channel owned by the club. On the grounds, there are five grass pitches , two of which have under-soil heating , one artificial grass field , three small grass pitches and a multi-functional sports arena . The site covers a total area of 18,000 m 2 (190,000 sq ft). In addition, the club owns a Footbonaut , a training robot , which is effectively a 14 m 2 (150 sq ft) training cage. The training complex and youth performance centre, located in Hohenbuschei, will be expanded in stages until 2021. [ vague ] In addition, the Sports Business Office will be entirely rebuilt from scratch. The planned construction, which will cost up to 20 million euros, will make BVB the best-equipped football club in the country with regards to infrastructure. In the Strobelallee Training Centre , the BVB Evonik Football Academy has an outstanding [ tone ] training venue exclusively at its disposal. Among others, the Bundesliga-team used to prepare for their matches on the club's former training ground. ^ This includes standing terraces used for Bundesliga matches. The all-seated capacity is not the largest in Germany; that distinction is held by the Olympic Stadium in Berlin . ^ "Borussia Dortmund und Signal Iduna verlängern Zusammenarbeit bis 2021" (in German). aktie.bvb.de. Archived from the original on 20 September 2013 . Retrieved 23 July 2013 . ^ "Dortmunds Stadionkapazität erhöht sich" (in German). Kicker. 16 July 2015. Archived from the original on 8 September 2017 . Retrieved 17 July 2015 . ^ "SIGNAL IDUNA PARK, Borussia Dortmund" (in German). stadionwelt.de. Archived from the original on 27 November 2015 . Retrieved 26 July 2015 . ^ Brajkovic, Josip (9 January 2024). "BVB Stadion Dortmund Complete Guide - Everything You Need to Know" . InsideSport.com . ^ "Vergane Glorie: Stadion Rote Erde" (in Dutch). martijnmureau.nl. 9 August 2014. ^ "Borusseum –BVB Dortmund 09 Football Museum" . krafthaus.eu . Archived from the original on 6 December 2019 . Retrieved 6 December 2019 . ^ "Q-Cells signs sponsorship deal with Borussia Dortmund" . PV Tech . 15 July 2011. Archived from the original on 6 December 2019 . Retrieved 6 December 2019 . ^ "2011-12 World Football Attendances – Best Drawing Leagues (Chart of Top-20-drawing national leagues of association football) / Plus list of 35-highest drawing association football clubs in the world in 2011-12. " billsportsmaps.com" . Archived from the original on 18 October 2015 . Retrieved 14 August 2013 . ^ Smith, Ben (15 October 2014). "Price of Football 2014: Why fans flock to Borussia Dortmund" . BBC Sport . Archived from the original on 27 October 2014 . Retrieved 1 November 2014 . ^ a b "BVB-Trainingszentrum in Dortmund-Brackel am Hohenbuschei eröffnet" (in German). Der Westen. 6 April 2011. Archived from the original on 22 August 2019 . Retrieved 6 April 2011 . ^ "Trainingszentrum wird eingeweiht Borussia zieht nach Brackel um" (in German). Borussia Dortmund. Archived from the original on 12 June 2018 . Retrieved 10 June 2018 . ^ "Startschuss ist gefallen – Trainingszentrum wird erweitert" (in German). Ruhr Nachrichten. Archived from the original on 12 June 2018 . Retrieved 18 June 2010 . ^ "Footbonaut: "Der Kreativität sind keine Grenzen gesetzt" " . DFB - Deutscher Fußball-Bund e.V. (in German). Deutscher Fußball-Bund. Archived from the original on 22 August 2019 . Retrieved 10 June 2018 . ^ "The Future of Sport: Borussia Dortmund Football Training Robot" . Soccer Box. Archived from the original on 12 June 2018 . Retrieved 10 June 2018 . ^ "We're building Borussia's future" . Borussia Dortmund. Archived from the original on 30 June 2019 . Retrieved 30 June 2019 . ^ "Strobelallee Training Centre" . Borussia Dortmund. Archived from the original on 3 July 2019 . Retrieved 1 July 2019 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Stadiums

Stadiums [ edit ] The Westfalenstadion is the home stadium of Borussia Dortmund, Germany's largest stadium and the seventh-largest in Europe. The stadium was named "Signal Iduna Park" after insurance company Signal Iduna purchased the rights to name the stadium until 2021. This name, however, could not be used when hosting FIFA and UEFA events, since these governing bodies have policies forbidding corporate sponsorship from companies that are not official tournament partners. During the 2006 World Cup , the stadium was referred to as "FIFA World Cup Stadium, Dortmund", while in UEFA club matches, it is known as "BVB Stadion Dortmund". The stadium currently [ when? ] hosts up to 81,359 spectators (standing and seated) for league matches and 65,829 seated spectators for international matches. [ contradictory ] For these, the characteristic southern grandstand is re-equipped with seats to conform to FIFA regulations. In 1974, the Westfalenstadion replaced the Stadion Rote Erde , which is located next door and serves now as the stadium of Borussia Dortmund II . After the increasing popularity of Borussia Dortmund in the 1960s, it became obvious that the traditional ground was too small for the increasing number of Borussia Dortmund supporters. The city of Dortmund, however, was not able to finance a new stadium and federal institutions were unwilling to help. But in 1971, Dortmund was selected to replace the city of Cologne , which was forced to withdraw its plans to host games in the 1974 World Cup . The funds originally set aside for the projected stadium in Cologne were thus re-allocated to Dortmund, and a new stadium became reality. The Westfalenstadion has undergone several renovations throughout the years to increase the size of the stadium, including an expansion of the stadium for the 2006 World Cup. In 2008, the Borusseum , a museum about Borussia Dortmund, opened in the stadium. In 2011, Borussia Dortmund agreed to a partnership with Q-Cells . The company installed 8,768 solar cells on the roof of the Westfalenstadion to generate up to 860,000 kWh per year. Borussia Dortmund has the highest average attendance of any football club worldwide. In 2014, it was estimated that each of the club's home games was attended by around 1,000 British spectators, drawn to the team by its low ticket prices compared to the Premier League . ^ This includes standing terraces used for Bundesliga matches. The all-seated capacity is not the largest in Germany; that distinction is held by the Olympic Stadium in Berlin . ^ "Borussia Dortmund und Signal Iduna verlängern Zusammenarbeit bis 2021" (in German). aktie.bvb.de. Archived from the original on 20 September 2013 . Retrieved 23 July 2013 . ^ "Dortmunds Stadionkapazität erhöht sich" (in German). Kicker. 16 July 2015. Archived from the original on 8 September 2017 . Retrieved 17 July 2015 . ^ "SIGNAL IDUNA PARK, Borussia Dortmund" (in German). stadionwelt.de. Archived from the original on 27 November 2015 . Retrieved 26 July 2015 . ^ Brajkovic, Josip (9 January 2024). "BVB Stadion Dortmund Complete Guide - Everything You Need to Know" . InsideSport.com . ^ "Vergane Glorie: Stadion Rote Erde" (in Dutch). martijnmureau.nl. 9 August 2014. ^ "Borusseum –BVB Dortmund 09 Football Museum" . krafthaus.eu . Archived from the original on 6 December 2019 . Retrieved 6 December 2019 . ^ "Q-Cells signs sponsorship deal with Borussia Dortmund" . PV Tech . 15 July 2011. Archived from the original on 6 December 2019 . Retrieved 6 December 2019 . ^ "2011-12 World Football Attendances – Best Drawing Leagues (Chart of Top-20-drawing national leagues of association football) / Plus list of 35-highest drawing association football clubs in the world in 2011-12. " billsportsmaps.com" . Archived from the original on 18 October 2015 . Retrieved 14 August 2013 . ^ Smith, Ben (15 October 2014). "Price of Football 2014: Why fans flock to Borussia Dortmund" . BBC Sport . Archived from the original on 27 October 2014 . Retrieved 1 November 2014 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Training ground

Training ground [ edit ] Borussia Dortmund's training ground and academy base Hohenbuschei is located in Brackel, a district of Dortmund. Inside the complex, there are physical fitness and rehabilitation robotics areas, physiotherapy and massage rooms, and remedial and hydrotherapy pools . The facility also includes sauna rooms, steam rooms and weight rooms , classrooms, conference halls , offices for the BVB front office , a restaurant, and a TV studio to interview the BVB professional footballers and coaching staff for BVB total! , the channel owned by the club. On the grounds, there are five grass pitches , two of which have under-soil heating , one artificial grass field , three small grass pitches and a multi-functional sports arena . The site covers a total area of 18,000 m 2 (190,000 sq ft). In addition, the club owns a Footbonaut , a training robot , which is effectively a 14 m 2 (150 sq ft) training cage. The training complex and youth performance centre, located in Hohenbuschei, will be expanded in stages until 2021. [ vague ] In addition, the Sports Business Office will be entirely rebuilt from scratch. The planned construction, which will cost up to 20 million euros, will make BVB the best-equipped football club in the country with regards to infrastructure. In the Strobelallee Training Centre , the BVB Evonik Football Academy has an outstanding [ tone ] training venue exclusively at its disposal. Among others, the Bundesliga-team used to prepare for their matches on the club's former training ground. ^ a b "BVB-Trainingszentrum in Dortmund-Brackel am Hohenbuschei eröffnet" (in German). Der Westen. 6 April 2011. Archived from the original on 22 August 2019 . Retrieved 6 April 2011 . ^ "Trainingszentrum wird eingeweiht Borussia zieht nach Brackel um" (in German). Borussia Dortmund. Archived from the original on 12 June 2018 . Retrieved 10 June 2018 . ^ "Startschuss ist gefallen – Trainingszentrum wird erweitert" (in German). Ruhr Nachrichten. Archived from the original on 12 June 2018 . Retrieved 18 June 2010 . ^ "Footbonaut: "Der Kreativität sind keine Grenzen gesetzt" " . DFB - Deutscher Fußball-Bund e.V. (in German). Deutscher Fußball-Bund. Archived from the original on 22 August 2019 . Retrieved 10 June 2018 . ^ "The Future of Sport: Borussia Dortmund Football Training Robot" . Soccer Box. Archived from the original on 12 June 2018 . Retrieved 10 June 2018 . ^ "We're building Borussia's future" . Borussia Dortmund. Archived from the original on 30 June 2019 . Retrieved 30 June 2019 . ^ "Strobelallee Training Centre" . Borussia Dortmund. Archived from the original on 3 July 2019 . Retrieved 1 July 2019 .

______________________________________________________________________

## Organisation and finance

Organisation and finance [ edit ] The Borussia Dortmund team bus provided by sponsor MAN Borussia Dortmund e.V. is represented by its management board and a board of directors consisting of president Dr. Reinhard Rauball , his proxy and vice-president Gerd Pieper, and treasurer Dr. Reinhold Lunow. Professional football at Dortmund is run by the organisation Borussia Dortmund GmbH & Co. KGaA . This corporation model has two types of participators: at least one partner with unlimited liability and at least one partner with limited liability . The investment of the latter is divided into stocks . The organisation Borussia Dortmund GmbH is the partner with unlimited liability and is responsible for the management and representation of Borussia Dortmund GmbH & Co. KGaA. Borussia Dortmund GmbH is fully owned by the sports club, Borussia Dortmund e.V. This organizational structure was designed to ensure that the sports club has full control over the professional squad. The stock of Borussia Dortmund GmbH & Co. KGaA was floated on the stock market in October 2000 and is listed in the General Standard of Deutsche Börse AG. Borussia Dortmund GmbH & Co. KGaA became the first and, so far, the only publicly traded sports club on the German stock market. 4.61% of Borussia Dortmund GmbH & Co. KGaA is owned by the sports club, Borussia Dortmund e.V.; 8.24% by Bernd Geske; and 67.24% widely spread shareholdings . Hans-Joachim Watzke is the CEO and Thomas Treß is the CFO of the GmbH & Co. KGaA. Michael Zorc as sporting director is responsible for the first team, the coaching staff , the youth and junior section, and scouting . The supervisory board consists, among others, of politicians Werner Müller and Peer Steinbrück . According to the 2015 Deloitte 's annual Football Money League , BVB generated revenues of €262 million during the 2013–14 season. This figure excludes player transfer fees, VAT and other sales-related taxes. Season 2014–15 2015–16 2016–17 2017–18 2018–19 2019–20 2020–21 2021–22 2022–23 2023–24 Total revenue (€ mn.) 276 376 406 536 490 410 350 414 491 607 Net profit (€ mn.) 5 29 8 28 17 −44 −73 −33 11 49 Total Assets (€ mn.) 387 425 479 478 500 518 451 455 512 590 Total Equity (€ mn.) 286 310 312 336 355 305 233 281 283 327 Number of employees 804 833 902 806 827 923 1,017 The shareholder structure of Borussia Dortmund GmbH & Co. KGaA Free float 67.24 (64.3%) Bernd Geske 8.24 (7.88%) Evonik Industries AG 8.19 (7.83%) SIGNAL IDUNA 5.98 (5.72%) PUMA SE 5.32 (5.09%) Ralph Dommermuth Beteiligungen GmbH 5.03 (4.81%) BVB 09 e.V. Dortmund 4.61 (4.41%) Current management and board [ edit ] As of 1 January 2023 Chairman Aki Watzke Borussia Dortmund GmbH & Co. KGaA Member Position Hans-Joachim Watzke Chairman of the management managing director for sport, communications and human resources Carsten Cramer Managing director for sales, marketing and digitalization Thomas Treß Managing director for organisation, finance and facilities Sebastian Kehl Segment director for sport Sascha Fligge Segment director for communications Corinna Timmermann Segment director for human resources Dr. Christian Hockenjos Segment director for organisation Mark Stahlschmidt Segment director for finance and facilities Supervisory board Member Note Christian Kullmann Chairman of the supervisory board Chairman of the executive board of Evonik Industries , Essen Ulrich Leitermann Vice chairman and chairman of the managing boards of group parent companies of the Signal Iduna Group Judith Dommermuth Managing partner of JUVIA Verwaltungs GmbH, Cologne Bernd Geske Managing partner of Bernd Geske Lean Communication, Meerbusch Major shareholder of Borussia Dortmund GmbH & Co. KGaA Bodo Löttgen Member in the state parliament ( Landtag ) of North Rhine-Westphalia Dr. Reinhold Lunow Internist, medical director and partner of Internistische Naturheilkundliche Gemeinschaftspraxis, Bornheim treasurer of Ballspielverein Borussia 09 e. V. Dortmund since 20 November 2005 Dr. Bernhard Pellens Professor of International Corporate Accounting at Ruhr University Bochum Academic Director of the Institute of Management (ifu) at Ruhr University Bochum Honorary Professor at Tongji University in Shanghai, China Silke Seidel Chief executive officer of Dortmunder Stadtwerke Aktiengesellschaft Managing Director of Hohenbuschei Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH, Westfalentor 1 GmbH and Dortmund Logistik GmbH ^ "Der Verein" [The Club]. bvb.de (in German). BVB. Archived from the original on 30 April 2014 . Retrieved 18 April 2014 . ^ "Unternehmensportrait / BVB auf einen Blick / BVB Aktie" (in German). Aktie.bvb.de. Archived from the original on 1 February 2019 . Retrieved 27 August 2013 . ^ a b c "Shareholder Structure" . report.bvb.de . Retrieved 25 April 2024 . ^ a b "Organisation and Management" . aktie.bvb.de. Archived from the original on 13 July 2019 . Retrieved 23 July 2013 . ^ a b "Supervisory Board" . aktie.bvb.de. Archived from the original on 12 July 2013 . Retrieved 23 July 2013 . ^ "Deloitte Football Money League 2015 – Commercial breaks" (PDF) . deloitte.com. 2015. Archived from the original (PDF) on 22 January 2015 . Retrieved 12 March 2015 . ^ "Borussia Dortmund GmbH Gewinn- und Verlustrechnung über 10 Jahre, Finanzdaten 549309 | MarketScreener Deutschland" . de.marketscreener.com (in German) . Retrieved 18 May 2025 . ^ "Borussia Dortmund Fundamentalanalyse | KGV | Kennzahlen" . boerse.de (in German) . Retrieved 18 May 2025 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Current management and board

Current management and board [ edit ] As of 1 January 2023 Chairman Aki Watzke Borussia Dortmund GmbH & Co. KGaA Member Position Hans-Joachim Watzke Chairman of the management managing director for sport, communications and human resources Carsten Cramer Managing director for sales, marketing and digitalization Thomas Treß Managing director for organisation, finance and facilities Sebastian Kehl Segment director for sport Sascha Fligge Segment director for communications Corinna Timmermann Segment director for human resources Dr. Christian Hockenjos Segment director for organisation Mark Stahlschmidt Segment director for finance and facilities Supervisory board Member Note Christian Kullmann Chairman of the supervisory board Chairman of the executive board of Evonik Industries , Essen Ulrich Leitermann Vice chairman and chairman of the managing boards of group parent companies of the Signal Iduna Group Judith Dommermuth Managing partner of JUVIA Verwaltungs GmbH, Cologne Bernd Geske Managing partner of Bernd Geske Lean Communication, Meerbusch Major shareholder of Borussia Dortmund GmbH & Co. KGaA Bodo Löttgen Member in the state parliament ( Landtag ) of North Rhine-Westphalia Dr. Reinhold Lunow Internist, medical director and partner of Internistische Naturheilkundliche Gemeinschaftspraxis, Bornheim treasurer of Ballspielverein Borussia 09 e. V. Dortmund since 20 November 2005 Dr. Bernhard Pellens Professor of International Corporate Accounting at Ruhr University Bochum Academic Director of the Institute of Management (ifu) at Ruhr University Bochum Honorary Professor at Tongji University in Shanghai, China Silke Seidel Chief executive officer of Dortmunder Stadtwerke Aktiengesellschaft Managing Director of Hohenbuschei Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH, Westfalentor 1 GmbH and Dortmund Logistik GmbH ^ Cite error: The named reference Organisation was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ Cite error: The named reference Board was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ Cite error: The named reference Shareholder was invoked but never defined (see the help page ).

______________________________________________________________________

## Kits and sponsorship

Kits and sponsorship [ edit ] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Borussia Dortmund kits . Dortmund's main advertising partner and current [ when? ] shirt sponsor is Evonik . Since the 2012–13 season, the main equipment supplier has been Puma . The contract is currently [ when? ] valid. The club announced a deal with Opel to be the first-ever sleeve sponsor from the 2017–18 season. In addition, there are three different levels of partners: BVBChampionPartner includes, among others, [ vague ] Opel , bwin , Brinkhoff's , Wilo , Hankook and EA Sports ; BVBPartner includes, among others, MAN , Eurowings , Coca-Cola , Ruhr Nachrichten , REWE and Aral ; and BVBProduktPartner includes, among others, ofo , Westfalenhallen and TEDi . Since 2012, Brixental in the Kitzbühel Alps in Austria is a BVB sponsor as well; furthermore, the region is host of one of the annual summer training camps. Sponsors [ edit ] Manufacturer Period Brand Source 1974–1990 Adidas 1990–2000 Nike 2000–2004 Goool.de 2004–2009 Nike 2009–2012 Kappa 2012– Puma Shirt Sponsor Period Sponsor Source 1974–1976 City of Dortmund 1976–1978 Samson 1978–1980 Prestolith 1980–1983 UHU 1983–1986 Arctic 1986–1997 Continentale 1997–2000 s.Oliver 2000–2006 E.ON 2006–2007 ! 2007–2020 Evonik 2020– 1&1 Ionos ( Bundesliga matches only) Evonik ( DFB Pokal and UEFA competitions only) Sleeve Sponsor Period Sponsor Source 2017–2022 Opel 2022 – GLS ^ 1: As a result of restructuring, the RAG business areas of chemicals, energy and real estate were transferred to a new business entity, but the company name was still unknown at that time. Placeholder in 2005–2006 was an artwork of an exclamation mark of the painter Otmar Alt. ^ a b "Evonik verlängert bis 2025 und kauft BVB-Anteile" (in German). Sponsors. Archived from the original on 13 July 2019 . Retrieved 6 June 2014 . ^ a b "Puma becomes technical kit supplier and sponsor of Borussia Dortmund" . Borussia Dortmund. Archived from the original on 13 July 2019 . Retrieved 26 October 2011 . ^ a b "Borussia Dortmund Signs Opel Sleeve Sponsor Deal" . Footy Headlines. Archived from the original on 14 July 2018 . Retrieved 3 August 2017 . ^ "Sponsors" . Borussia Dortmund. Archived from the original on 3 July 2018 . Retrieved 2 July 2018 . ^ "Sponsorenvertrag vorzeitig bis 2021 verlängert! – Die Kitzbüheler Alpen bleiben weiterhin Partner von Borussia Dortmund" (in German). Kitzbüheler Alpen Marketing. Archived from the original on 12 January 2020 . Retrieved 2 July 2018 . ^ a b "Trikotsammlung" (in German). schwatzgelb.de. Archived from the original on 16 July 2018 . Retrieved 15 July 2018 . ^ Ax, Martin (14 May 2000). "Borussia Dortmund wird Textilhersteller" . Die Welt (in German). Archived from the original on 26 May 2020 . Retrieved 15 July 2018 . ^ "Borussia Dortmund schließt Sponsor- und Ausrüstervertrag mit Nike" (in German). Borussia Dortmund. Archived from the original on 16 July 2018 . Retrieved 1 August 2003 . ^ "Neuer Ausrüster: Kappa kleidet BVB ein" (in German). Westfälischen Rundschau. 26 January 2009. Archived from the original on 16 July 2018 . Retrieved 26 January 2009 . ^ a b c d e f g h "Trikotsponsoren" (in German). schwatzgelb.de. Archived from the original on 15 July 2018 . Retrieved 15 July 2018 . ^ "Borussia Dortmund: Die Eisverkäufer" . Süddeutsche Zeitung (in German). 5 May 2013. Archived from the original on 16 December 2013 . Retrieved 23 July 2013 . ^ Dixon, Ed (20 February 2020). "Borussia Dortmund bring in 1&1 as Bundesliga shirt sponsor" . sportspromedia.com . Archived from the original on 20 February 2020 . Retrieved 12 May 2020 . ^ "BVB-Sponsor springt ab: Unternehmen verlässt den Profifußball" . Ruhr 24 (in German). 15 May 2022 . Retrieved 12 February 2024 . ^ "RN+ GLS folgt als Ärmelsponsor auf Opel: BVB macht Millionen-Deal perfekt" . Ruhr Nachrichten (in German). 20 July 2022. Archived from the original on 24 July 2022 . Retrieved 1 August 2022 . ^ "BVB präsentiert neues Trikot – Die RAG setzt (Ausrufe-)Zeichen" (in German). Borussia Dortmund. Archived from the original on 8 February 2018 . Retrieved 23 July 2013 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Sponsors

Sponsors [ edit ] Manufacturer Period Brand Source 1974–1990 Adidas 1990–2000 Nike 2000–2004 Goool.de 2004–2009 Nike 2009–2012 Kappa 2012– Puma Shirt Sponsor Period Sponsor Source 1974–1976 City of Dortmund 1976–1978 Samson 1978–1980 Prestolith 1980–1983 UHU 1983–1986 Arctic 1986–1997 Continentale 1997–2000 s.Oliver 2000–2006 E.ON 2006–2007 ! 2007–2020 Evonik 2020– 1&1 Ionos ( Bundesliga matches only) Evonik ( DFB Pokal and UEFA competitions only) Sleeve Sponsor Period Sponsor Source 2017–2022 Opel 2022 – GLS ^ 1: As a result of restructuring, the RAG business areas of chemicals, energy and real estate were transferred to a new business entity, but the company name was still unknown at that time. Placeholder in 2005–2006 was an artwork of an exclamation mark of the painter Otmar Alt. ^ a b "Trikotsammlung" (in German). schwatzgelb.de. Archived from the original on 16 July 2018 . Retrieved 15 July 2018 . ^ Ax, Martin (14 May 2000). "Borussia Dortmund wird Textilhersteller" . Die Welt (in German). Archived from the original on 26 May 2020 . Retrieved 15 July 2018 . ^ "Borussia Dortmund schließt Sponsor- und Ausrüstervertrag mit Nike" (in German). Borussia Dortmund. Archived from the original on 16 July 2018 . Retrieved 1 August 2003 . ^ "Neuer Ausrüster: Kappa kleidet BVB ein" (in German). Westfälischen Rundschau. 26 January 2009. Archived from the original on 16 July 2018 . Retrieved 26 January 2009 . ^ Cite error: The named reference Puma was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ a b c d e f g h "Trikotsponsoren" (in German). schwatzgelb.de. Archived from the original on 15 July 2018 . Retrieved 15 July 2018 . ^ "Borussia Dortmund: Die Eisverkäufer" . Süddeutsche Zeitung (in German). 5 May 2013. Archived from the original on 16 December 2013 . Retrieved 23 July 2013 . ^ Cite error: The named reference evonik was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ Dixon, Ed (20 February 2020). "Borussia Dortmund bring in 1&1 as Bundesliga shirt sponsor" . sportspromedia.com . Archived from the original on 20 February 2020 . Retrieved 12 May 2020 . ^ Cite error: The named reference sleeve was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ "BVB-Sponsor springt ab: Unternehmen verlässt den Profifußball" . Ruhr 24 (in German). 15 May 2022 . Retrieved 12 February 2024 . ^ "RN+ GLS folgt als Ärmelsponsor auf Opel: BVB macht Millionen-Deal perfekt" . Ruhr Nachrichten (in German). 20 July 2022. Archived from the original on 24 July 2022 . Retrieved 1 August 2022 . ^ "BVB präsentiert neues Trikot – Die RAG setzt (Ausrufe-)Zeichen" (in German). Borussia Dortmund. Archived from the original on 8 February 2018 . Retrieved 23 July 2013 .

______________________________________________________________________

## Controversy

Controversy [ edit ] Shortly before the end of the 2023–24 season, BVB management announced that the military weapons manufacturer Rheinmetall would be joining as a sponsor. The BVB fan council criticized the decision and was not previously informed by BVB GmbH. Borussia Dortmund's fan department published a statement denying media reports that there was a democratic agreement or even a vote by the fans in connection with the Rheinmetall deal. Thomas Kessen, spokesman for the Unser Kurve fan alliance, clearly criticized the deal. "Here you have to say, it's basically the same mechanism as in Qatar. It's sportswashing ," said Kessen. "Rheinmetall is happy to be able to paint a little black and yellow on blood-soaked names. And Aki Watzke is happy about several million in income. It can't be beaten in terms of shabbiness." Federal minister Robert Habeck (A90/Greens) justified a football club's deal with Rheinmetall and said that we live in a dangerous world and that the "understandable reluctance" in public dealings with the arms industry is no longer tenable and correct. ^ "Rheinmetall becomes Borussia Dortmund sponsor – DW – 05/29/2024" . dw.com . Retrieved 10 June 2024 . ^ a b c Nahar, Chaled; Wolf, Matthias (29 May 2024). "Rheinmetall wirbt beim BVB: Rüstungskonzern wird Sponsor" . sportschau.de (in German) . Retrieved 25 November 2024 .

______________________________________________________________________

## Charity

Charity [ edit ] Borussia Dortmund has raised money for charity for various causes. On 17 May 2011, Borussia Dortmund held a charity game for the 2011 Japan earthquake and tsunami against "Team Japan". Ticket sales from the game and €1 million from Dortmund's main sponsor Evonik went to charity for Japan earthquake and tsunami victims. In November 2012, Borussia Dortmund KGaA founded a charitable trust called leuchte auf , to give important social projects financial help. The trust's logo is a star consisting of the streets which meet at Dortmund's Borsigplatz, where the club was founded. On 6 July 2013, Borussia Dortmund held a charity game to raise money for 2013 German flood victims in the German states of Saxony and Saxony-Anhalt . In March 2020, Borussia Dortmund, Bayern Munich, RB Leipzig, and Bayer Leverkusen, the four German UEFA Champions League teams for the 2019–20 season, collectively gave €20 million to Bundesliga and 2. Bundesliga teams that were struggling financially during the COVID-19 pandemic . [ citation needed ] Since 1996, during Advent , Borussia Dortmund players visit the children's hospital in Dortmund where the players meet with the patients and give them gifts. ^ "Borussia Dortmund win charity match against 'Team Japan' | Goal.com" . Goal (website) . Archived from the original on 25 August 2019 . Retrieved 9 March 2020 . ^ "leuchte auf – Die BVB Stiftung" (in German). Archived from the original on 4 December 2013 . Retrieved 12 December 2013 . ^ "Borussia Dortmund support flood victims" . Archived from the original on 4 January 2014. ^ "BVB players visit the Children's Hospital" . bvb.de . Archived from the original on 19 September 2021 . Retrieved 11 December 2020 .

______________________________________________________________________

## Players

Players [ edit ] See also: List of Borussia Dortmund players Current squad [ edit ] As of 1 June 2025 Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules ; some limited exceptions apply. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. No. Pos. Nation Player 1 GK SUI Gregor Kobel 3 DF GER Waldemar Anton 4 DF GER Nico Schlotterbeck ( 3rd captain ) 5 DF ALG Ramy Bensebaini 6 MF TUR Salih Özcan 7 MF USA Giovanni Reyna 8 MF GER Felix Nmecha 9 FW GUI Serhou Guirassy 10 MF GER Julian Brandt ( vice-captain ) 13 MF GER Pascal Groß 14 FW GER Maximilian Beier 16 FW BEL Julien Duranville No. Pos. Nation Player 20 MF AUT Marcel Sabitzer 23 MF GER Emre Can ( captain ) 25 DF GER Niklas Süle 26 DF NOR Julian Ryerson 27 FW GER Karim Adeyemi 31 GK GER Silas Ostrzinski 33 GK GER Alexander Meyer 35 GK POL Marcel Lotka 37 FW USA Cole Campbell 38 MF GER Kjell Wätjen 39 DF ITA Filippo Mane 43 FW ENG Jamie Gittens Out on loan [ edit ] Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules ; some limited exceptions apply. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. No. Pos. Nation Player — GK GER Diant Ramaj (at Copenhagen until 30 June 2025) — DF ESP Guille Bueno (at Darmstadt 98 until 30 June 2025) — DF FRA Soumaila Coulibaly (at Brest until 30 June 2025) No. Pos. Nation Player — FW CIV Sébastien Haller (at Utrecht until 30 June 2025) — FW GER Youssoufa Moukoko (at Nice until 30 June 2025) Reserves and Youth Sector [ edit ] Further information: Borussia Dortmund II and Borussia Dortmund Youth Sector Club captains [ edit ] Since 1963, 19 players have held the position of club captain for Borussia Dortmund. The first club captain after the introduction of the Bundesliga was Alfred Schmidt , who was captain from 1963 to 1965. The longest-serving captain Michael Zorc , who was club captain from 1988 to 1998, has the distinction of [ tone ] having won the most trophies as captain; he won two Bundesliga titles, one DFB-Pokal , three DFL-Supercups and one UEFA Champions League . The current club captain is Emre Can , who took over after Marco Reus stepped down from his role as the club's captain for the 2023–24 season . Emre Can , the current club captain Dates Name Notes 1963–1965 Alfred Schmidt First club captain in the Bundesliga era 1965–1968 Wolfgang Paul 1968–1971 Sigfried Held 1971–1974 Dieter Kurrat 1974–1977 Klaus Ackermann 1977–1979 Lothar Huber 1979–1983 Manfred Burgsmüller 1983–1985 Rolf Rüssmann 1985–1987 Dirk Hupe 1987–1988 Frank Mill 1988–1998 Michael Zorc Longest-serving captain in Borussia Dortmund's history 1998–2003 Stefan Reuter 2003–2004 Christoph Metzelder 2004–2008 Christian Wörns 2008–2014 Sebastian Kehl 2014–2016 Mats Hummels 2016–2018 Marcel Schmelzer 2018–2023 Marco Reus 2023– Emre Can ^ "First Team" . Borussia Dortmund. Archived from the original on 12 November 2018 . Retrieved 8 July 2024 . ^ a b c "Can bleibt BVB-Kapitän - Sahin bestimmt neue Stellvertreter" (in German). Kicker. 6 August 2024 . Retrieved 9 August 2024 . ^ a b c d "Hummels, Zorc, wer noch? Die BVB-Kapitäne seit 1963" (in German). Kicker. Archived from the original on 12 June 2018 . Retrieved 6 June 2018 . ^ "Spieler und Trainer – Wer waren die Mannschaftskapitäne des BVB?" (in German). Borussia Dortmund. Archived from the original on 12 June 2018 . Retrieved 6 June 2018 . ^ a b " "Fünf Jahre voller Stolz" – Reus tritt als Kapitän zurück" (in German). Borussia Dortmund. 6 July 2023 . Retrieved 6 July 2023 . ^ a b "Emre Can neuer BVB-Kapitän, Gregor Kobel wird Stellvertreter" (in German). Borussia Dortmund. 27 July 2023 . Retrieved 27 July 2023 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Current squad

Current squad [ edit ] As of 1 June 2025 Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules ; some limited exceptions apply. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. No. Pos. Nation Player 1 GK SUI Gregor Kobel 3 DF GER Waldemar Anton 4 DF GER Nico Schlotterbeck ( 3rd captain ) 5 DF ALG Ramy Bensebaini 6 MF TUR Salih Özcan 7 MF USA Giovanni Reyna 8 MF GER Felix Nmecha 9 FW GUI Serhou Guirassy 10 MF GER Julian Brandt ( vice-captain ) 13 MF GER Pascal Groß 14 FW GER Maximilian Beier 16 FW BEL Julien Duranville No. Pos. Nation Player 20 MF AUT Marcel Sabitzer 23 MF GER Emre Can ( captain ) 25 DF GER Niklas Süle 26 DF NOR Julian Ryerson 27 FW GER Karim Adeyemi 31 GK GER Silas Ostrzinski 33 GK GER Alexander Meyer 35 GK POL Marcel Lotka 37 FW USA Cole Campbell 38 MF GER Kjell Wätjen 39 DF ITA Filippo Mane 43 FW ENG Jamie Gittens ^ "First Team" . Borussia Dortmund. Archived from the original on 12 November 2018 . Retrieved 8 July 2024 . ^ a b c "Can bleibt BVB-Kapitän - Sahin bestimmt neue Stellvertreter" (in German). Kicker. 6 August 2024 . Retrieved 9 August 2024 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Out on loan

Out on loan [ edit ] Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules ; some limited exceptions apply. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. No. Pos. Nation Player — GK GER Diant Ramaj (at Copenhagen until 30 June 2025) — DF ESP Guille Bueno (at Darmstadt 98 until 30 June 2025) — DF FRA Soumaila Coulibaly (at Brest until 30 June 2025) No. Pos. Nation Player — FW CIV Sébastien Haller (at Utrecht until 30 June 2025) — FW GER Youssoufa Moukoko (at Nice until 30 June 2025)

______________________________________________________________________

### Reserves and Youth Sector

Reserves and Youth Sector [ edit ] Further information: Borussia Dortmund II and Borussia Dortmund Youth Sector

______________________________________________________________________

### Club captains

Club captains [ edit ] Since 1963, 19 players have held the position of club captain for Borussia Dortmund. The first club captain after the introduction of the Bundesliga was Alfred Schmidt , who was captain from 1963 to 1965. The longest-serving captain Michael Zorc , who was club captain from 1988 to 1998, has the distinction of [ tone ] having won the most trophies as captain; he won two Bundesliga titles, one DFB-Pokal , three DFL-Supercups and one UEFA Champions League . The current club captain is Emre Can , who took over after Marco Reus stepped down from his role as the club's captain for the 2023–24 season . Emre Can , the current club captain Dates Name Notes 1963–1965 Alfred Schmidt First club captain in the Bundesliga era 1965–1968 Wolfgang Paul 1968–1971 Sigfried Held 1971–1974 Dieter Kurrat 1974–1977 Klaus Ackermann 1977–1979 Lothar Huber 1979–1983 Manfred Burgsmüller 1983–1985 Rolf Rüssmann 1985–1987 Dirk Hupe 1987–1988 Frank Mill 1988–1998 Michael Zorc Longest-serving captain in Borussia Dortmund's history 1998–2003 Stefan Reuter 2003–2004 Christoph Metzelder 2004–2008 Christian Wörns 2008–2014 Sebastian Kehl 2014–2016 Mats Hummels 2016–2018 Marcel Schmelzer 2018–2023 Marco Reus 2023– Emre Can ^ a b c d "Hummels, Zorc, wer noch? Die BVB-Kapitäne seit 1963" (in German). Kicker. Archived from the original on 12 June 2018 . Retrieved 6 June 2018 . ^ "Spieler und Trainer – Wer waren die Mannschaftskapitäne des BVB?" (in German). Borussia Dortmund. Archived from the original on 12 June 2018 . Retrieved 6 June 2018 . ^ a b " "Fünf Jahre voller Stolz" – Reus tritt als Kapitän zurück" (in German). Borussia Dortmund. 6 July 2023 . Retrieved 6 July 2023 . ^ a b "Emre Can neuer BVB-Kapitän, Gregor Kobel wird Stellvertreter" (in German). Borussia Dortmund. 27 July 2023 . Retrieved 27 July 2023 .

______________________________________________________________________

## Non-playing staff

Non-playing staff [ edit ] Head coach Niko Kovač Director of football Sebastian Kehl As of 2 February 2025 Name Position Source Coaching staff Niko Kovač Head coach Robert Kovač Filip Tapalović Assistant coach Matthias Kleinsteiber Goalkeeping coach Athletic department Shad Forsythe Head of department Mathias Kolodziej Athletic coach Marcelo Martins Dennis Morschel Florian Wangler Medical department Dr. Markus Braun First team doctor Thorben Voeste Rehabilitation coach Olaf Wehmer Dr. Philipp Laux Sport psychologist Scouting & recruitment Kai-Norman Schulz Coordinator sports technology Serdar Ayar Video analyst Laurent Busser Chief scout Benjamin Frank Scout Sebastian Frank Jan Heidermann Artur Płatek Waldemar Wrobel Organisation & management Sebastian Kehl Director of football Ingo Preuß Head of reserve-team football Wolfgang Springer Head of youth department Lars Ricken Youth coordinator Matthias Sammer External advisor Suresh Letchmanan Head of BVB Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd. Benjamin Wahl Head of BVB China Patrick Owomoyela International ambassador Karl-Heinz Riedle Roman Weidenfeller Norbert Dickel Stadium announcer Sigfried Held Frank Gräfen Kit manager Head coaches [ edit ] Main article: List of Borussia Dortmund records and statistics § Head coaches In July 1935, Fritz Thelen became the club's first full-time head coach, but was not available in the first months of the season, forcing Dortmund player and Germany international Ernst Kuzorra to take over instead. In 1966, Willi Multhaup led his side to the European Cup Winners' Cup , the first German team to win a European trophy. Horst Köppel was the coach to bring major silverware to the club for the first time in over 20 years, winning the DFB-Pokal in 1989. Ottmar Hitzfeld is the club's most successful coach, having won both the Bundesliga and Supercup twice. In 1997 , Dortmund had waited for continental success for over 30 years; Hitzfeld crowned his period with an unexpected triumph and won the Champions League . Dortmund won the Intercontinental Cup in 1997 and head coach Nevio Scala became the first and, so far, only non-native speaker to win a major title. In 2001–02 , Matthias Sammer , a former BVB player, brought the league title back to Dortmund. In 2008–09 , the club approached Mainz 05 head coach Jürgen Klopp . He won the club's seventh championship title in 2010–11 . In his fourth season , Dortmund won the Bundesliga and the DFB-Pokal to complete the first league and cup double in the club's history. Successor Thomas Tuchel won the 2016–17 DFB-Pokal . [ citation needed ] On 22 May 2018, Lucien Favre was confirmed as the new head coach of the club for the 2018–19 season. He won the 2019 DFL-Supercup on 3 August 2019. [ citation needed ] On 12 December 2020, Dortmund suffered a 5–1 defeat against VfB Stuttgart . Favre was fired the next day. No. Nationality Head coach From Until Honours won 1 Ernst Kuzorra (interim) July 1935 Aug 1935 2 Fritz Thelen Sept 1935 June 1936 3 Ferdinand Swatosch July 1936 May 1939 4 Willi Sevcik June 1939 unknown 5 Fritz Thelen 10 January 1946 31 July 1946 6 Ferdinand Fabra 1 August 1946 31 July 1948 1 Oberliga West 7 Eduard Havlicek 1 August 1948 31 July 1950 2 Oberliga West 8 Hans-Josef Kretschmann 1 August 1950 31 July 1951 9 Hans Schmidt 1 August 1951 31 July 1955 1 Oberliga West 10 Helmut Schneider 1 August 1955 31 July 1957 2 Oberliga West, 2 Championships 11 Hans Tauchert 1 August 1957 24 June 1958 12 Max Merkel 14 July 1958 31 July 1961 13 Hermann Eppenhoff 1 August 1961 30 June 1965 1 Championship, 1 Cup 14 Willi Multhaup 1 July 1965 30 June 1966 1 European Cup Winners' Cup 15 Heinz Murach 1 July 1966 10 April 1968 16 Oswald Pfau 18 April 1968 16 December 1968 17 Helmut Schneider 17 December 1968 17 March 1969 18 Hermann Lindemann 21 March 1969 30 June 1970 19 Horst Witzler 1 July 1970 21 December 1971 20 Herbert Burdenski 3 January 1972 30 June 1972 21 Detlev Brüggemann 1 July 1972 31 October 1972 22 Max Michallek 1 November 1972 1 March 1973 23 Dieter Kurrat 1 March 1973 30 June 1973 24 János Bédl 1 July 1973 14 February 1974 25 Dieter Kurrat 14 February 1974 30 June 1974 26 Otto Knefler 1 July 1974 1 February 1976 27 Horst Buhtz 1 February 1976 30 June 1976 28 Otto Rehhagel 1 July 1976 30 April 1978 29 Carl-Heinz Rühl 1 July 1978 29 April 1979 30 Uli Maslo 30 April 1979 30 June 1979 31 Udo Lattek 1 July 1979 10 May 1981 32 Rolf Bock (interim) 11 May 1981 30 June 1981 33 Branko Zebec 1 July 1981 30 June 1982 34 Karl-Heinz Feldkamp 1 July 1982 5 April 1983 35 Helmut Witte (interim) 6 April 1983 30 June 1983 36 Uli Maslo 1 July 1983 23 October 1983 37 Helmut Witte (interim) 23 October 1983 31 October 1983 38 Heinz-Dieter Tippenhauer 31 October 1983 15 November 1983 39 Horst Franz 16 November 1983 30 June 1984 40 Timo Konietzka 1 July 1984 24 October 1984 41 Reinhard Saftig (interim) 25 October 1984 27 October 1984 42 Erich Ribbeck 28 October 1984 30 June 1985 43 Pál Csernai 1 July 1985 20 April 1986 44 Reinhard Saftig 21 April 1986 30 June 1988 45 Horst Köppel 1 July 1988 30 June 1991 1 Cup, 1 Supercup 46 Ottmar Hitzfeld 1 July 1991 30 June 1997 2 Championships, 2 Supercups, 1 Champions League 47 Nevio Scala 1 July 1997 30 June 1998 1 Intercontinental Cup 48 Michael Skibbe 1 July 1998 4 February 2000 49 Bernd Krauss 6 February 2000 13 April 2000 50 Udo Lattek (interim) 14 April 2000 30 June 2000 51 Matthias Sammer 1 July 2000 30 June 2004 1 Championship 52 Bert van Marwijk 1 July 2004 18 December 2006 53 Jürgen Röber 19 December 2006 12 March 2007 54 Thomas Doll 13 March 2007 19 May 2008 55 Jürgen Klopp 1 July 2008 30 June 2015 2 Championships, 1 Cup, 2 Supercups 56 Thomas Tuchel 1 July 2015 30 May 2017 1 Cup 57 Peter Bosz 1 July 2017 10 December 2017 58 Peter Stöger 10 December 2017 30 June 2018 59 Lucien Favre 1 July 2018 13 December 2020 1 Supercup 60 Edin Terzić (interim) 13 December 2020 30 June 2021 1 Cup 61 Marco Rose 1 July 2021 20 May 2022 62 Edin Terzić 23 May 2022 13 June 2024 63 Nuri Şahin 14 June 2024 22 January 2025 64 Mike Tullberg (interim) 22 January 2025 2 February 2025 65 Niko Kovač 2 February 2025 ^ a b c d e f g h i j k l "First Team" . Borussia Dortmund. Archived from the original on 12 November 2018 . Retrieved 2 July 2022 . ^ "Abteilung für Sportmedizin" (in German). Klinikum Westfalen. Archived from the original on 1 July 2018 . Retrieved 1 July 2018 . ^ "BVB holt Videoanalyst Kai-Norman Schulz von Austria Wien" . Westdeutsche Allgemeine Zeitung (in German). 22 December 2017. Archived from the original on 23 February 2022 . Retrieved 22 December 2017 . ^ "Das ist der BVB-Kader für die Saison 2017/18" . Halterner Zeitung (in German). Archived from the original on 1 July 2018 . Retrieved 12 August 2017 . ^ "BVB schlägt erneut bei Bayern zu" (in German). Sport1. Archived from the original on 2 July 2022 . Retrieved 2 July 2022 . ^ a b c "BVB holt Klopp-Scout aus Liverpool" (in German). Sport1. Archived from the original on 1 July 2018 . Retrieved 26 June 2018 . ^ "Artur Płatek, skaut Borussii w długim wywiadzie" (in Polish). Weszło. 21 November 2013. Archived from the original on 1 July 2018 . Retrieved 21 November 2013 . ^ "Ex-RWE-Coach Wrobel geht für den BVB auf Talentsuche" (in German). Funke Mediengruppe. Archived from the original on 12 January 2020 . Retrieved 9 September 2014 . ^ "Organisation and Management" . Borussia Dortmund. Archived from the original on 16 October 2018 . Retrieved 1 July 2018 . ^ "Der neue BVB II-Manager Ingo Preuß über seine Arbeit" (in German). Ruhr Nachrichten. Archived from the original on 1 July 2018 . Retrieved 4 May 2011 . ^ "Organisation" (in German). Borussia Dortmund. Archived from the original on 14 June 2018 . Retrieved 1 July 2018 . ^ "Lars Ricken Is Borussia's New Youth Coordinator" . Borussia Dortmund. Archived from the original on 1 July 2018 . Retrieved 1 July 2018 . ^ "Externer Berater: Sammer kehrt zum BVB zurück" (in German). Kicker. Archived from the original on 30 March 2018 . Retrieved 30 March 2018 . ^ "Suresh Letchmanan to head Singapore office" . Borussia Dortmund. Archived from the original on 10 April 2016 . Retrieved 20 August 2014 . ^ "Chinese office – German soccer side increase their presence in Asia with a second outlet" . 5 December 2017. Archived from the original on 8 December 2017 . Retrieved 5 December 2017 . ^ "Patrick Owomoyela returns to the BVB family" . Borussia Dortmund. Archived from the original on 1 July 2018 . Retrieved 6 March 2018 . ^ "Riedle takes on international ambassador role for BVB" . Borussia Dortmund. Archived from the original on 1 July 2018 . Retrieved 22 November 2014 . ^ "Weidenfellers erste Reise als Markenbotschafter" (in German). Borussia Dortmund. Archived from the original on 19 July 2018 . Retrieved 16 July 2018 . ^ "Norbert Dickel: Der Held am Mikro" (in German). Borussia Dortmund. Archived from the original on 4 September 2017 . Retrieved 2 September 2017 . ^ "Fanbeauftragte – Sigfried Held" (in German). Borussia Dortmund. Archived from the original on 1 July 2018 . Retrieved 1 July 2018 . ^ "Die Geschichte des BVB – Teil 4: Die BVB-Historie von 1929 bis 1938" (in German). schwatzgelb.de. Archived from the original on 30 March 2014 . Retrieved 23 July 2013 . ^ "Die BVB Trainer-Datenbank" (in German). schwatzgelb.de. Archived from the original on 15 May 2013 . Retrieved 23 July 2013 . ^ "Dortmund at the Double: history in the making in 2012" . Borussia Dortmund. Archived from the original on 2 February 2016 . Retrieved 27 January 2016 . ^ "Lucien Favre to become Borussia Dortmund head coach" . Borussia Dortmund. Archived from the original on 22 May 2018 . Retrieved 22 May 2018 . ^ Mendola, Nicholas (13 December 2020). "Dortmund fires Favre, American boss Marsch mentioned as candidate" . ProSoccerTalk | NBC Sports . Archived from the original on 13 December 2020 . Retrieved 15 December 2020 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Head coaches

Head coaches [ edit ] Main article: List of Borussia Dortmund records and statistics § Head coaches In July 1935, Fritz Thelen became the club's first full-time head coach, but was not available in the first months of the season, forcing Dortmund player and Germany international Ernst Kuzorra to take over instead. In 1966, Willi Multhaup led his side to the European Cup Winners' Cup , the first German team to win a European trophy. Horst Köppel was the coach to bring major silverware to the club for the first time in over 20 years, winning the DFB-Pokal in 1989. Ottmar Hitzfeld is the club's most successful coach, having won both the Bundesliga and Supercup twice. In 1997 , Dortmund had waited for continental success for over 30 years; Hitzfeld crowned his period with an unexpected triumph and won the Champions League . Dortmund won the Intercontinental Cup in 1997 and head coach Nevio Scala became the first and, so far, only non-native speaker to win a major title. In 2001–02 , Matthias Sammer , a former BVB player, brought the league title back to Dortmund. In 2008–09 , the club approached Mainz 05 head coach Jürgen Klopp . He won the club's seventh championship title in 2010–11 . In his fourth season , Dortmund won the Bundesliga and the DFB-Pokal to complete the first league and cup double in the club's history. Successor Thomas Tuchel won the 2016–17 DFB-Pokal . [ citation needed ] On 22 May 2018, Lucien Favre was confirmed as the new head coach of the club for the 2018–19 season. He won the 2019 DFL-Supercup on 3 August 2019. [ citation needed ] On 12 December 2020, Dortmund suffered a 5–1 defeat against VfB Stuttgart . Favre was fired the next day. No. Nationality Head coach From Until Honours won 1 Ernst Kuzorra (interim) July 1935 Aug 1935 2 Fritz Thelen Sept 1935 June 1936 3 Ferdinand Swatosch July 1936 May 1939 4 Willi Sevcik June 1939 unknown 5 Fritz Thelen 10 January 1946 31 July 1946 6 Ferdinand Fabra 1 August 1946 31 July 1948 1 Oberliga West 7 Eduard Havlicek 1 August 1948 31 July 1950 2 Oberliga West 8 Hans-Josef Kretschmann 1 August 1950 31 July 1951 9 Hans Schmidt 1 August 1951 31 July 1955 1 Oberliga West 10 Helmut Schneider 1 August 1955 31 July 1957 2 Oberliga West, 2 Championships 11 Hans Tauchert 1 August 1957 24 June 1958 12 Max Merkel 14 July 1958 31 July 1961 13 Hermann Eppenhoff 1 August 1961 30 June 1965 1 Championship, 1 Cup 14 Willi Multhaup 1 July 1965 30 June 1966 1 European Cup Winners' Cup 15 Heinz Murach 1 July 1966 10 April 1968 16 Oswald Pfau 18 April 1968 16 December 1968 17 Helmut Schneider 17 December 1968 17 March 1969 18 Hermann Lindemann 21 March 1969 30 June 1970 19 Horst Witzler 1 July 1970 21 December 1971 20 Herbert Burdenski 3 January 1972 30 June 1972 21 Detlev Brüggemann 1 July 1972 31 October 1972 22 Max Michallek 1 November 1972 1 March 1973 23 Dieter Kurrat 1 March 1973 30 June 1973 24 János Bédl 1 July 1973 14 February 1974 25 Dieter Kurrat 14 February 1974 30 June 1974 26 Otto Knefler 1 July 1974 1 February 1976 27 Horst Buhtz 1 February 1976 30 June 1976 28 Otto Rehhagel 1 July 1976 30 April 1978 29 Carl-Heinz Rühl 1 July 1978 29 April 1979 30 Uli Maslo 30 April 1979 30 June 1979 31 Udo Lattek 1 July 1979 10 May 1981 32 Rolf Bock (interim) 11 May 1981 30 June 1981 33 Branko Zebec 1 July 1981 30 June 1982 34 Karl-Heinz Feldkamp 1 July 1982 5 April 1983 35 Helmut Witte (interim) 6 April 1983 30 June 1983 36 Uli Maslo 1 July 1983 23 October 1983 37 Helmut Witte (interim) 23 October 1983 31 October 1983 38 Heinz-Dieter Tippenhauer 31 October 1983 15 November 1983 39 Horst Franz 16 November 1983 30 June 1984 40 Timo Konietzka 1 July 1984 24 October 1984 41 Reinhard Saftig (interim) 25 October 1984 27 October 1984 42 Erich Ribbeck 28 October 1984 30 June 1985 43 Pál Csernai 1 July 1985 20 April 1986 44 Reinhard Saftig 21 April 1986 30 June 1988 45 Horst Köppel 1 July 1988 30 June 1991 1 Cup, 1 Supercup 46 Ottmar Hitzfeld 1 July 1991 30 June 1997 2 Championships, 2 Supercups, 1 Champions League 47 Nevio Scala 1 July 1997 30 June 1998 1 Intercontinental Cup 48 Michael Skibbe 1 July 1998 4 February 2000 49 Bernd Krauss 6 February 2000 13 April 2000 50 Udo Lattek (interim) 14 April 2000 30 June 2000 51 Matthias Sammer 1 July 2000 30 June 2004 1 Championship 52 Bert van Marwijk 1 July 2004 18 December 2006 53 Jürgen Röber 19 December 2006 12 March 2007 54 Thomas Doll 13 March 2007 19 May 2008 55 Jürgen Klopp 1 July 2008 30 June 2015 2 Championships, 1 Cup, 2 Supercups 56 Thomas Tuchel 1 July 2015 30 May 2017 1 Cup 57 Peter Bosz 1 July 2017 10 December 2017 58 Peter Stöger 10 December 2017 30 June 2018 59 Lucien Favre 1 July 2018 13 December 2020 1 Supercup 60 Edin Terzić (interim) 13 December 2020 30 June 2021 1 Cup 61 Marco Rose 1 July 2021 20 May 2022 62 Edin Terzić 23 May 2022 13 June 2024 63 Nuri Şahin 14 June 2024 22 January 2025 64 Mike Tullberg (interim) 22 January 2025 2 February 2025 65 Niko Kovač 2 February 2025 ^ "Die Geschichte des BVB – Teil 4: Die BVB-Historie von 1929 bis 1938" (in German). schwatzgelb.de. Archived from the original on 30 March 2014 . Retrieved 23 July 2013 . ^ "Die BVB Trainer-Datenbank" (in German). schwatzgelb.de. Archived from the original on 15 May 2013 . Retrieved 23 July 2013 . ^ "Dortmund at the Double: history in the making in 2012" . Borussia Dortmund. Archived from the original on 2 February 2016 . Retrieved 27 January 2016 . ^ "Lucien Favre to become Borussia Dortmund head coach" . Borussia Dortmund. Archived from the original on 22 May 2018 . Retrieved 22 May 2018 . ^ Mendola, Nicholas (13 December 2020). "Dortmund fires Favre, American boss Marsch mentioned as candidate" . ProSoccerTalk | NBC Sports . Archived from the original on 13 December 2020 . Retrieved 15 December 2020 .

______________________________________________________________________

## Records

Records [ edit ] Main article: List of Borussia Dortmund records and statistics Michael Zorc has the most appearances for the club. Borussia Dortmund's name is attached to a number of Bundesliga and European records: The Borussia Dortmund player with the most appearances is Michael Zorc , with 572 in all competitions. The Borussia Dortmund player with the most goals is Alfred Preissler , with 177 in all competitions. The most goals ever in a UEFA Champions League match (12) occurred when Dortmund beat Legia Warsaw 8–4 in the 2016–17 season . [ citation needed ] Youssoufa Moukoko became the youngest player in Bundesliga history (aged 16 years and 1 day) when he appeared for Borussia Dortmund against Hertha BSC on 21 November 2020. Moukoko also became the youngest player in UEFA Champions League history (aged 16 years and 18 days) when he was subbed on for Dortmund against Zenit Saint Petersburg on 8 December 2020. Moukoko became both the youngest goalscorer in Bundesliga history and the youngest player to score for Dortmund (aged 16 years and 28 days) after netting against Union Berlin on 18 December 2020. Dortmund was on the receiving end of the worst loss ever in a Bundesliga match when they suffered a 12–0 defeat away to Borussia Mönchengladbach on 29 April 1978. BVB and Bayern Munich were carded a record of 15 times (3 for Dortmund, 12 for Bayern) in a match played on 7 April 2001. The most penalties given in a Bundesliga match was five, in a game played between Borussia Mönchengladbach and Dortmund on 9 November 1965. [ citation needed ] The first goal ever scored in Bundesliga play was by Dortmund's Friedhelm Konietzka against Werder Bremen ; however, Werder Bremen won 3–2. Former Borussia Dortmund striker Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang is one of only three players, the others being Klaus Allofs and Robert Lewandowski , to have scored at least once in ten straight Bundesliga matchdays. He was also the first player ever to score at least once in the first eight matchdays of a Bundesliga season, [ citation needed ] and formerly held the record for most Bundesliga goals in a single season by a foreign player (31 in 2016–17 ). ^ a b "Borussia Dortmund" . UEFA . 22 August 2012. Archived from the original on 19 August 2013 . Retrieved 18 March 2013 . ^ "Youssoufa Moukoko becomes youngest Bundesliga player ever for Borussia Dortmund against Hertha Berlin" . bundesliga .com . 21 November 2020. Archived from the original on 30 November 2020 . Retrieved 26 November 2020 . ^ "Moukoko becomes UEFA Champions League's youngest player" . UEFA . 8 December 2020. Archived from the original on 9 December 2020 . Retrieved 8 December 2020 . ^ "Youssoufa Moukoko becomes youngest ever Bundesliga scorer for Borussia Dortmund against Union Berlin" . bundesliga .com . 18 December 2020. Archived from the original on 17 September 2021 . Retrieved 18 December 2020 . ^ "Darf's ein Törchen mehr sein?" . Der Spiegel (in German). 28 April 2008. Archived from the original on 27 August 2012 . Retrieved 17 April 2013 . ^ "Die Spielstatistik Borussia Dortmund – FC Bayern München" (in German). fussballdaten.de . Archived from the original on 1 April 2014 . Retrieved 24 April 2014 . ^ "The First Ever Bundesliga Goal * Fastest ever Bundesliga goal scored by a substitute Miloš Jojić" . theoffside.com . – Bundesliga blog. Archived from the original on 25 October 2012 . Retrieved 17 April 2013 . ^ "Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang jagt Uralt-Tor-Rekord von Klaus Allofs" . 16 October 2015. Archived from the original on 21 September 2016 . Retrieved 8 August 2016 .

______________________________________________________________________

## Honours

Honours [ edit ] Type Competition Titles Seasons Domestic German Champions / Bundesliga 8 1956 , 1957 , 1963 , 1994–95 , 1995–96 , 2001–02 , 2010–11 , 2011–12 DFB-Pokal 5 1964–65 , 1988–89 , 2011–12 , 2016–17 , 2020–21 DFL-Supercup 6 1989 , 1995 , 1996 , 2013 , 2014 , 2019 Continental UEFA Champions League 1 1996–97 UEF Cup Winners' Cup 1 1965–66 Worldwide Intercontinental Cup 1 1997 Regional [ edit ] Oberliga West/West German Championship : Winners: 1947–48 , 1948–49 , 1949–50 , 1952–53 , 1955–56 , 1956–57 (record) Runners-up: 1960–61 , 1962–63 Westphalia Cup : Winners: 1947 Individual trophies [ edit ] Ballon d'Or 1996 : Matthias Sammer Golden Boy 2011: Mario Götze 2020: Erling Haaland 2023: Jude Bellingham ^ "Alle Gewinner des Ballon d'Or seit 1956" [All Ballon d'Or winners since 1956]. Kicker (in German). 28 October 2024 . Retrieved 20 January 2025 . ^ "Mario Götze ist der "Golden Boy 2011" " [Mario Götze is the "Golden Boy 2011"] (in German). Borussia Dortmund. 7 December 2011 . Retrieved 20 January 2025 . ^ "BVB News: Erling Haaland gewinnt Golden-Boy-Award 2020" [BVB News: Erling Haaland wins Golden Boy Award 2020]. Sky Sport (in German). 21 November 2020 . Retrieved 20 January 2025 . ^ "Musiala deutlich geschlagen: Bellingham ist "Golden Boy" 2023" [Musiala clearly beaten: Bellingham is "Golden Boy" 2023]. Kicker (in German). 17 November 2023 . Retrieved 20 January 2025 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Regional

Regional [ edit ] Oberliga West/West German Championship : Winners: 1947–48 , 1948–49 , 1949–50 , 1952–53 , 1955–56 , 1956–57 (record) Runners-up: 1960–61 , 1962–63 Westphalia Cup : Winners: 1947

______________________________________________________________________

### Individual trophies

Individual trophies [ edit ] Ballon d'Or 1996 : Matthias Sammer Golden Boy 2011: Mario Götze 2020: Erling Haaland 2023: Jude Bellingham ^ "Alle Gewinner des Ballon d'Or seit 1956" [All Ballon d'Or winners since 1956]. Kicker (in German). 28 October 2024 . Retrieved 20 January 2025 . ^ "Mario Götze ist der "Golden Boy 2011" " [Mario Götze is the "Golden Boy 2011"] (in German). Borussia Dortmund. 7 December 2011 . Retrieved 20 January 2025 . ^ "BVB News: Erling Haaland gewinnt Golden-Boy-Award 2020" [BVB News: Erling Haaland wins Golden Boy Award 2020]. Sky Sport (in German). 21 November 2020 . Retrieved 20 January 2025 . ^ "Musiala deutlich geschlagen: Bellingham ist "Golden Boy" 2023" [Musiala clearly beaten: Bellingham is "Golden Boy" 2023]. Kicker (in German). 17 November 2023 . Retrieved 20 January 2025 .

______________________________________________________________________

## UEFA club coefficient ranking

UEFA club coefficient ranking [ edit ] As of 29 April 2025 Rank Nation Team Points 4 Liverpool 125.500 5 Inter Milan 111.750 6 Paris Saint-Germain 111.000 7 Borussia Dortmund 106.750 8 Roma 104.500 9 Chelsea 102.500 10 Barcelona 102.250 ^ "Club coefficients | UEFA Rankings – Clubs (men's)" . UEFA . Retrieved 30 January 2025 .

______________________________________________________________________

## Affiliated clubs

Affiliated clubs [ edit ] The following clubs are currently affiliated with Borussia Dortmund: Hyderabad Buriram United Marconi Stallions Iwate Grulla Morioka Hoa Binh BVB International Academy Waterloo Aris Thessalonikis Persib Bandung Pittsburgh Steelers ^ Goal.com. "Borussia Dortmund looking to plant their flag in India with Hyderabad partnership" . retrieved 21 August 2020. ^ a b c insidesport.co (16 August 2020). "Hyderabad enter into multi-year partnership with Borussia Dortmund" . retrieved 21 August 2020. Archived from the original on 27 September 2021 . Retrieved 21 August 2020 . ^ Danis, Steven (18 December 2018). "Menengok Kerja Sama Borussia Dortmund dengan Buriram United" . football-tribe.com (in Indonesian). Football Tribe . Retrieved 16 August 2024 . ^ "NÓNG: CLB Borussia Dortmund hợp tác với Việt Nam thành lập CLB bóng đá Hoà Bình" . sports442.com (in Vietnamese). 10 March 2021. Archived from the original on 10 October 2021 . Retrieved 10 October 2021 . ^ Brown, Josh (16 February 2022). "Waterloo Minor Soccer Club strikes affiliation deal with Borussia Dortmund" . Waterloo Region Record . Archived from the original on 6 February 2023 . Retrieved 6 February 2023 . ^ "Waterloo United Partners With Borussia Dortmund" . Waterloo United SC . 14 December 2021. Archived from the original on 6 February 2023 . Retrieved 6 February 2023 . ^ "Wichtige Fan-Infos zum Spiel bei PAOK Saloniki" . bvb.de . Retrieved 5 June 2024 . ^ Wildayanti, Wila (1 November 2022). "Tetap Jalin Kerja sama dengan Borussia Dortmund, Persib Siap Beri Kejutan" [Maintaining Cooperation with Borussia Dortmund, Persib Ready to Give a Surprise]. BolaSport.com (in Indonesian). Archived from the original on 16 August 2024 . Retrieved 16 August 2024 . ^ "Borussia Dortmund und Pittsburgh Steelers gehen Partnerschaft ein" . www.bvb.de . Retrieved 20 May 2025 .

______________________________________________________________________

## Women's team

Women's team [ edit ] Main article: Borussia Dortmund (women) Borussia Dortmund also has a women's team . The women's team currently competes in the Frauen-Westfalenliga [ de ] , one of the regional leagues in the fourth tier of the German women's football league system . ^ "BVB Women – First Team" . Borussia Dortmund . Retrieved 31 March 2025 .

______________________________________________________________________

## See also

See also [ edit ] Borussia Dortmund II Borussia Dortmund (women) Borussia Dortmund Youth Sector List of Borussia Dortmund seasons List of world champion football clubs

______________________________________________________________________

## References

References [ edit ]

______________________________________________________________________

## External links

External links [ edit ] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Borussia Dortmund . Official website (in English and German) Borussia Dortmund on Bundesliga official website Borussia Dortmund on UEFA official website v t e Borussia Dortmund Information Club Players Managers Matches Records Europe Seasons Borussia Dortmund II Borussia Dortmund Youth Sector Women's Team Stadiums Westfalenstadion Stadion Rote Erde Weiße Wiese Other Revierderby Der Klassiker Superleague Formula team Goool.de 2017 team bus attack Handball BVB International Academy Waterloo ( League1 Canada ) v t e Borussia Dortmund – current squad 1 Kobel 2 Couto 3 Anton 4 Schlotterbeck 5 Bensebaini 6 Özcan 7 Reyna 8 Nmecha 9 Guirassy 10 Brandt 13 Groß 14 Beier 16 Duranville 20 Sabitzer 23 Can ( c ) 24 Svensson 25 Süle 26 Ryerson 27 Adeyemi 33 Meyer 35 Lotka 37 Campbell 38 Wätjen 39 Mane 43 Gittens Manager: Kovač v t e Borussia Dortmund – managers Cargnelli ( 1923 ) Kuzorra (a.i.) ( 1935 –36) Thelen ( 1936 ) Swatosch ( 1936 –39) Sevcic ( 1939 ) Thelen ( 1946 ) Fabra ( 1946 –48) Havlicek ( 1948 –50) Kretschmann ( 1950 –51) Schmidt ( 1951 –55) Schneider ( 1955 –57) Tauchert ( 1957 –58) Merkel ( 1958 –61) Eppenhoff ( 1961 –65) Kwiatkowski ( 1964 ) Multhaup ( 1965 –66) Murach ( 1966 –68) Pfau ( 1968 ) Schneider ( 1968 –69) Lindemann ( 1969 –70) Bracht ( 1970 ) Witzler ( 1970 –71) Burdenski ( 1972 ) Brüggemann ( 1972 ) Michallek ( 1972 –73) Kurrat ( 1973 ) Bédl ( 1973 –74) Kurrat ( 1974 ) Knefler ( 1974 –76) Buhtz ( 1976 ) Rehhagel ( 1976 –78) Rühl ( 1978 –79) Maslo ( 1979 ) Lattek ( 1979 –81) Bock (a.i.) ( 1981 ) Zebec ( 1981 –82) Feldkamp ( 1982 –83) Witte (a.i.) ( 1983 ) Maslo ( 1983 ) Witte (a.i.) ( 1983 ) Tippenhauer ( 1983 ) Franz ( 1983 –84) Konietzka ( 1984 ) Saftig (a.i.) ( 1984 ) Ribbeck ( 1984 –85) Csernai ( 1985 –86) Saftig ( 1986 –88) Köppel ( 1988 –91) Hitzfeld ( 1991 –97) Scala ( 1997 –98) Skibbe ( 1998 –2000) Krauss ( 2000 ) Lattek (a.i.) ( 2000 ) Sammer ( 2000 –04) Van Marwijk ( 2004 –06) Röber ( 2006 –07) Doll ( 2007 –08) Klopp ( 2008 –15) Tuchel ( 2015 –17) Bosz ( 2017 ) Stöger ( 2017 –18) Favre ( 2018 –20) Terzić ( 2020 –21) Rose ( 2021 –22) Terzić ( 2022 –24) Şahin ( 2024 –25) Tullberg (a.i.) ( 2025 ) Kovač ( 2025 –) v t e European Cup and UEFA Champions League winners European Cup era, 1955–1992 1950s 1955–56 : Real Madrid 1956–57 : Real Madrid 1957–58 : Real Madrid 1958–59 : Real Madrid 1959–60 : Real Madrid 1960s 1960–61 : Benfica 1961–62 : Benfica 1962–63 : Milan 1963–64 : Inter Milan 1964–65 : Inter Milan 1965–66 : Real Madrid 1966–67 : Celtic 1967–68 : Manchester United 1968–69 : Milan 1969–70 : Feyenoord 1970s 1970–71 : Ajax 1971–72 : Ajax 1972–73 : Ajax 1973–74 : Bayern Munich 1974–75 : Bayern Munich 1975–76 : Bayern Munich 1976–77 : Liverpool 1977–78 : Liverpool 1978–79 : Nottingham Forest 1979–80 : Nottingham Forest 1980s 1980–81 : Liverpool 1981–82 : Aston Villa 1982–83 : Hamburger SV 1983–84 : Liverpool 1984–85 : Juventus 1985–86 : Steaua București 1986–87 : Porto 1987–88 : PSV 1988–89 : Milan 1989–90 : Milan 1990s 1990–91 : Red Star Belgrade 1991–92 : Barcelona UEFA Champions League era, 1992–present 1990s 1992–93 : Marseille 1993–94 : Milan 1994–95 : Ajax 1995–96 : Juventus 1996–97 : Borussia Dortmund 1997–98 : Real Madrid 1998–99 : Manchester United 1999–2000 : Real Madrid 2000s 2000–01 : Bayern Munich 2001–02 : Real Madrid 2002–03 : Milan 2003–04 : Porto 2004–05 : Liverpool 2005–06 : Barcelona 2006–07 : Milan 2007–08 : Manchester United 2008–09 : Barcelona 2009–10 : Inter Milan 2010s 2010–11 : Barcelona 2011–12 : Chelsea 2012–13 : Bayern Munich 2013–14 : Real Madrid 2014–15 : Barcelona 2015–16 : Real Madrid 2016–17 : Real Madrid 2017–18 : Real Madrid 2018–19 : Liverpool 2019–20 : Bayern Munich 2020s 2020–21 : Chelsea 2021–22 : Real Madrid 2022–23 : Manchester City 2023–24 : Real Madrid 2024–25 : Paris Saint-Germain Finals Winning managers v t e UEFA Cup Winners' Cup winners 1960s 1960–61 : Fiorentina 1961–62 : Atlético Madrid 1962–63 : Tottenham Hotspur 1963–64 : Sporting CP 1964–65 : West Ham United 1965–66 : Borussia Dortmund 1966–67 : Bayern Munich 1967–68 : AC Milan 1968–69 : Slovan Bratislava 1969–70 : Manchester City 1970s 1970–71 : Chelsea 1971–72 : Rangers 1972–73 : AC Milan 1973–74 : 1. FC Magdeburg 1974–75 : Dynamo Kyiv 1975–76 : Anderlecht 1976–77 : Hamburger SV 1977–78 : Anderlecht 1978–79 : Barcelona 1979–80 : Valencia 1980s 1980–81 : Dinamo Tbilisi 1981–82 : Barcelona 1982–83 : Aberdeen 1983–84 : Juventus 1984–85 : Everton 1985–86 : Dynamo Kyiv 1986–87 : Ajax 1987–88 : Mechelen 1988–89 : Barcelona 1989–90 : Sampdoria 1990s 1990–91 : Manchester United 1991–92 : Werder Bremen 1992–93 : Parma 1993–94 : Arsenal 1994–95 : Zaragoza 1995–96 : Paris Saint-Germain 1996–97 : Barcelona 1997–98 : Chelsea 1998–99 : Lazio v t e Intercontinental Cup winners 1960s 1960 : Real Madrid 1961 : Peñarol 1962 : Santos 1963 : Santos 1964 : Inter Milan 1965 : Inter Milan 1966 : Peñarol 1967 : Racing 1968 : Estudiantes de La Plata 1969 : AC Milan 1970s 1970 : Feyenoord 1971 : Nacional 1972 : Ajax 1973 : Independiente 1974 : Atlético Madrid 1976 : Bayern Munich 1977 : Boca Juniors 1979 : Olimpia 1980s 1980 : Nacional 1981 : Flamengo 1982 : Peñarol 1983 : Grêmio 1984 : Independiente 1985 : Juventus 1986 : River Plate 1987 : Porto 1988 : Nacional 1989 : AC Milan 1990s 1990 : AC Milan 1991 : Red Star Belgrade 1992 : São Paulo 1993 : São Paulo 1994 : Vélez Sársfield 1995 : Ajax 1996 : Juventus 1997 : Borussia Dortmund 1998 : Real Madrid 1999 : Manchester United 2000s 2000 : Boca Juniors 2001 : Bayern Munich 2002 : Real Madrid 2003 : Boca Juniors 2004 : Porto v t e Original Bundesliga clubs, 1963–64 Borussia Dortmund Duisburg Eintracht Braunschweig Eintracht Frankfurt Hamburg Hertha Berlin Kaiserslautern Karlsruhe FC Köln 1860 Munich Nürnberg Preußen Münster Saarbrücken Schalke VfB Stuttgart Werder Bremen v t e Bundesliga 2024–25 clubs FC Augsburg Bayer Leverkusen Bayern Munich VfL Bochum Borussia Dortmund Borussia Mönchengladbach Eintracht Frankfurt SC Freiburg 1. FC Heidenheim TSG Hoffenheim Holstein Kiel RB Leipzig Mainz 05 FC St. Pauli VfB Stuttgart Union Berlin Werder Bremen VfL Wolfsburg Former clubs 1860 Munich Alemannia Aachen Arminia Bielefeld Bayer 05 Uerdingen/KFC Uerdingen 05 Blau-Weiß 90 Berlin Borussia Neunkirchen Darmstadt 98 Dynamo Dresden Fortuna Düsseldorf Eintracht Braunschweig Energie Cottbus Fortuna Köln Greuther Fürth Hamburger SV Hannover 96 Hansa Rostock Hertha BSC FC 08 Homburg FC Ingolstadt 1. FC Kaiserslautern Karlsruher SC Kickers Offenbach 1. FC Köln VfB Leipzig Meidericher SV/MSV Duisburg Preußen Münster 1. FC Nürnberg Rot-Weiss Essen Rot-Weiß Oberhausen SC Paderborn 1. FC Saarbrücken Schalke 04 Stuttgarter Kickers Tasmania Berlin Tennis Borussia Berlin SSV Ulm SpVgg Unterhaching Waldhof Mannheim Wattenscheid 09 Wuppertaler SV History Meisterschale Reichsliga Introduction in 1963 1965 scandal 1971 scandal 2005 scandal Promotion Competition Clubs winners Players foreign Managers Lists and statistics Records and statistics Borussia Mönchengladbach 12–0 Borussia Dortmund All-time table Footballer of the Year Top scorers Top scorers by season Hat-tricks Attendance Awards Seasons 1963–64 1964–65 1965–66 1966–67 1967–68 1968–69 1969–70 1970–71 1971–72 1972–73 1973–74 1974–75 1975–76 1976–77 1977–78 1978–79 1979–80 1980–81 1981–82 1982–83 1983–84 1984–85 1985–86 1986–87 1987–88 1988–89 1989–90 1990–91 1991–92 1992–93 1993–94 1994–95 1995–96 1996–97 1997–98 1998–99 1999–2000 2000–01 2001–02 2002–03 2003–04 2004–05 2005–06 2006–07 2007–08 2008–09 2009–10 2010–11 2011–12 2012–13 2013–14 2014–15 2015–16 2016–17 2017–18 2018–19 2019–20 2020–21 2021–22 2022–23 2023–24 2024–25 2025–26 Category Managers Players v t e Former members of the G-14 (1998–2008) 1998–2008 Ajax Barcelona Bayern Munich Borussia Dortmund Inter Milan Juventus Liverpool Manchester United Marseille AC Milan Paris Saint-Germain Porto PSV Eindhoven Real Madrid 2002–2008 Arsenal Bayer Leverkusen Lyon Valencia Authority control databases International VIAF National Germany United States Czech Republic Israel

______________________________________________________________________
