# WIKIPEDIA ARTICLE: Chelsea_Football_Club

## TABLE OF CONTENTS

1 History
1.1 Founding and early years (1905–1952)
1.2 Modernisation and the first league championship (1952–1983)
1.3 Redevelopment and financial crisis (1983–2003)
1.4 Abramovich ownership (2003–2022)
1.5 BlueCo ownership (2022–present)
1.6 League history
2 Stadium
3 Identity
3.1 Crest
3.2 Colours
3.3 Songs and fan chants
4 Support
4.1 Rivalries
5 Records and statistics
5.1 Firsts
6 Ownership and finances
6.1 Sponsorship
6.1.1 Kit suppliers and shirt sponsors
7 Popular culture
8 Players
8.1 First-team squad
8.2 Development Squad and Academy
8.3 Out on loan
8.4 Other players under contract
9 Management
9.1 Coaching staff
9.2 Notable managers
9.3 Club personnel
10 Honours
10.1 Doubles
11 Chelsea Women
12 See also
13 Footnotes
14 References
15 Further reading
16 External links
16.1 Independent websites

# FULL CONTENT

## History

History [ edit ] Founding and early years (1905–1952) [ edit ] Main article: History of Chelsea F.C. (1905–1952) The first Chelsea team, September 1905 In 1904, Gus Mears acquired the Stamford Bridge athletics stadium in Fulham with the aim of turning it into a football ground. An offer to lease it to nearby Fulham F.C. was turned down, so Mears opted to found his own club to use the stadium. As there was already a team named Fulham in the borough, the name of the adjacent borough of Chelsea was chosen for the new club; names like Kensington FC , Stamford Bridge FC and London FC were considered. Chelsea F.C. was founded on 10 March 1905 at The Rising Sun pub (now The Butcher's Hook), opposite the present-day main entrance to the ground on Fulham Road , and were elected to the Football League shortly afterwards. Chelsea won promotion to the First Division in their second season, and yo-yoed between the First and Second Divisions in its early years. The team reached the 1915 FA Cup final , where they lost to Sheffield United at Old Trafford, and finished third in the First Division in 1920, the club's best league campaign to that point. Chelsea had a reputation for signing star players and attracted large crowds. The club had the highest average attendance in English football in ten separate seasons including 1907–08 , 1909–10 , 1911–12 , 1912–13 , 1913–14 and 1919–20 . They were FA Cup semi-finalists in 1920 and 1932 and remained in the First Division throughout the 1930s, but success eluded the club in the inter-war years. Modernisation and the first league championship (1952–1983) [ edit ] Main article: History of Chelsea F.C. (1952–1983) Chart showing the progress of Chelsea's league finishes from 1906 to the present Former Arsenal and England centre-forward Ted Drake was appointed manager in 1952 and proceeded to modernise the club. He removed the club's Chelsea pensioner crest, improved the youth set-up and training regime, rebuilt the side with shrewd signings from the lower divisions and amateur leagues, and led Chelsea to their first major trophy success – the League championship – in 1954–55 . The following season saw UEFA create the European Champions' Cup , but after objections from The Football League , Chelsea were persuaded to withdraw from the competition before it started. Chelsea failed to build on this success, and spent the remainder of the 1950s in mid-table. Drake was dismissed in 1961 and replaced by player-coach Tommy Docherty . Docherty built a new team around the group of talented young players emerging from the club's youth set-up, and Chelsea challenged for honours throughout the 1960s, enduring several near-misses. They were on course for a treble of League, FA Cup and League Cup going into the final stages of the 1964–65 season, winning the League Cup but faltering late on in the other two. In three seasons the side were beaten in three major semi-finals and were FA Cup runners-up. Under Docherty's successor, Dave Sexton , Chelsea won the FA Cup in 1970 , beating Leeds United 2–1 in a final replay. The following year, Chelsea took their first European honour, a UEFA Cup Winners' Cup triumph, with another replayed win, this time over Real Madrid in Athens. Redevelopment and financial crisis (1983–2003) [ edit ] Main article: History of Chelsea F.C. (1983–2003) The late 1970s through to the '80s was a turbulent period for Chelsea. An ambitious redevelopment of Stamford Bridge threatened the financial stability of the club, star players were sold and the team were relegated. Further problems were caused by a notorious hooligan element among the support, which was to plague the club throughout the decade. In 1982, at the nadir of their fortunes, Chelsea were acquired by Ken Bates from Mears' great-nephew Brian Mears , for the nominal sum of £1. Bates bought a controlling stake in the club and floated Chelsea on the AIM stock exchange in March 1996 although by now the Stamford Bridge freehold had been sold to property developers, meaning the club faced losing their home. On the pitch, the team had fared little better, coming close to relegation to the Third Division for the first time, but in 1983 manager John Neal put together an impressive new team for minimal outlay. Chelsea won the Second Division title in 1983–84 and established themselves in the top division with two top-six finishes, before being relegated again in 1988. The club bounced back immediately by winning the Second Division championship in 1988–89. After a long-running legal battle, Bates reunited the stadium freehold with the club in 1992 by doing a deal with the banks of the property developers, who had been bankrupted by a market crash. In the mid-1990s Chelsea fan and businessman Matthew Harding became a director and loaned the club £26 million to build the new North Stand and invest in new players. Chelsea's form in the new Premier League was unconvincing, although they did reach the 1994 FA Cup final . The appointment of Ruud Gullit as player-manager in 1996 began an upturn in the team's fortunes. He added several top international players to the side and led the club to their first major honour since 1971, the FA Cup . Gullit was replaced by Gianluca Vialli , whose reign saw Chelsea win the League Cup , the UEFA Cup Winners' Cup and the UEFA Super Cup in 1998 , and the FA Cup in 2000 . They mounted a strong title challenge in 1998–99, finishing four points behind champions Manchester United, and made their first appearance in the UEFA Champions League . Vialli was sacked in favour of Claudio Ranieri , who guided Chelsea to the 2002 FA Cup final and Champions League qualification in 2002–03. Abramovich ownership (2003–2022) [ edit ] Main article: History of Chelsea F.C. (2003–2022) Abramovich at Stamford Bridge during a 4–0 victory over Portsmouth , August 2008 With the club facing an apparent financial crisis, Bates unexpectedly sold Chelsea F.C. in June 2003 for £60 million. In so doing, he reportedly recognised a personal profit of £17 million on the club he had bought for £1 in 1982 (his stake had been diluted to just below 30% over the years). The club's new owner was Russian oligarch and billionaire Roman Abramovich , who took on responsibility for the club's £80 million of debt, quickly paying some of it. Sergei Pugachev alleged Chelsea was bought on Putin's orders, an allegation Abramovich has denied. Bates mentioned that Abramovich was in talks to buy Manchester United and Tottenham Hotspur before he bought Chelsea in a deal sealed in a day. Chelsea players celebrate their first UEFA Champions League title against Bayern Munich (2012). Over £100 million was spent on new players, but Ranieri was unable to deliver any trophies, and was replaced by José Mourinho . Under Mourinho, Chelsea became the fifth English team to win back-to-back league championships since the Second World War ( 2004–05 and 2005–06 ), in addition to winning an FA Cup ( 2007 ) and two League Cups ( 2005 and 2007 ). After a poor start to the 2007–08 season, Mourinho was replaced by Avram Grant , who led the club to their first UEFA Champions League final , which they lost on penalties to Manchester United . The club did not turn a profit in the first nine years of Abramovich's ownership, and made record losses of £140m in June 2005. In 2009, under caretaker manager Guus Hiddink , Chelsea won another FA Cup . In 2009–10 , his successor Carlo Ancelotti led them to their first Premier League and FA Cup Double , becoming the first English top-flight club to score 100 league goals in a season since 1963 . In 2012, Roberto Di Matteo led Chelsea to their seventh FA Cup , and their first UEFA Champions League title , beating Bayern Munich 4–3 on penalties, the first London club to win the trophy. The following year the club won the UEFA Europa League , making them the first club to hold two major European titles simultaneously and one of five clubs to have won the three main UEFA trophies. Mourinho returned as manager in 2013 and led Chelsea to League Cup success in March 2015, and the Premier League title two months later. Mourinho was sacked after four months of the following season after a poor start. In November 2012, Chelsea announced a profit of £1.4 million for the year ending 30 June 2012, the first time the club had made a profit under Abramovich's ownership. This was followed by a loss in 2013 and then their highest ever profit of £18.4 million for the year to June 2014. In 2018 Chelsea announced a record after-tax profit of £62 million. In 2017, under new coach Antonio Conte , Chelsea won their sixth English title and the following season won their eighth FA Cup. In 2018 Conte was sacked after a fifth-place finish and replaced with Maurizio Sarri , under whom Chelsea reached the League Cup final , which they lost on penalties to Manchester City and won the Europa League for a second time, beating Arsenal 4–1 in the final. Sarri then left the club to become manager of Juventus and was replaced by former Chelsea player Frank Lampard . In Lampard's first season , he guided Chelsea to fourth place in the Premier League and reached the FA Cup final , losing 2–1 to Arsenal. Lampard was dismissed in January 2021 and replaced with Thomas Tuchel . Players of Chelsea celebrating their first FIFA Club World Cup title (2021) after beating Brazilian side Palmeiras in the final Under Tuchel, Chelsea reached the FA Cup final , losing 1–0 to Leicester City , and won their second UEFA Champions League title with a 1–0 win over Manchester City in Porto. The club subsequently won the 2021 UEFA Super Cup for the second time by defeating Villarreal 6–5 in a penalty shootout, after it had ended 1–1 in Belfast after extra time, and the 2021 FIFA Club World Cup (the first for the club) in Abu Dhabi after beating Brazilian Palmeiras 2–1. On 18 April 2021, Chelsea announced it would be joining a new European Super League , a league competition comprising the biggest European clubs. After a backlash from supporters, the club announced their withdrawal days later. The club opted against furloughing their non-matchday staff during the COVID-19 pandemic , with the decision reportedly coming from Abramovich himself. Chelsea, one of the first clubs to help the National Health Service , lent the club-owned Millennium Hotel for the NHS staff. "[Chelsea] have been a success machine for the last 10–20 years. That doesn't just come with money, we've seen at Manchester United and Arsenal where they've put billions into the team and not had the success that Chelsea have had. Chelsea can feel comfortable that they'll have rich owners, but will they have football-smart owners? Because that's what Abramovich has been. — Gary Neville on Abramovich's legacy. Amidst financial sanctions leveled at Russian oligarchs by Western governments in response to the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine , Abramovich stated on 26 February that he would hand over the stewardship of Chelsea to the trustees of the Chelsea Foundation. The trustees did not immediately agree, due to legal concerns regarding the rules of the Charity Commission for England and Wales . A week later, Abramovich wrote-off the £1.5 billion the club owed him, and put the club up for sale, pledging to donate net proceeds from it to the victims of the war in Ukraine. On 10 March 2022, the British government announced sanctions on Abramovich with Chelsea allowed to operate under a special license until 31 May. In the following weeks, reports emerged of Abramovich's involvement in brokering a peace deal between Ukraine and Russia and securing safe evacuation corridors in besieged Ukrainian cities. An American government official revealed that the Ukrainian president, Volodymyr Zelenskyy had requested that the US government not levy sanctions against Abramovich given his importance to war relief efforts. BlueCo ownership (2022–present) [ edit ] Main article: History of Chelsea F.C. (2022–present) On 7 May 2022, Chelsea confirmed that terms had been agreed for a new ownership group, led by Todd Boehly , Clearlake Capital , Mark Walter and Hansjörg Wyss , to acquire the club. The group was later known as BlueCo . The UK government approved the £4.25bn takeover, ending Abramovich's 19-year ownership of the club. Bruce Buck , who served as chairman since 2003, was replaced by Boehly, while long-serving club director and de facto sporting director Marina Granovskaia left, as did Petr Čech from the role of technical and performance advisor. The club brought in Graham Potter from Brighton & Hove Albion to replace Tuchel on 8 September 2022. Chelsea won six of the first 11 games of the 2022–23 season , but only five of the remaining 27. Potter would be sacked on 2 April 2023 and eventually be replaced by Frank Lampard as caretaker manager. Under Lampard the club would only win one of their last 11 matches resulting in a 9% win percentage. Lampard's win percentage was the worst for any Chelsea manager who managed three games or more. Chelsea scored a record-low 38 goals across the entire season and finished in the bottom half of the table for the first time since 1995–96. Mauricio Pochettino was announced as Lampard's replacement in 2023. He led Chelsea to a 6th-place finish, and a place in the Conference League play-off round qualification . He also led Chelsea to the 2024 EFL Cup final , narrowly losing 0–1 to Liverpool. After clashing with the sporting directors Laurence Stewart and Paul Winstanley over strategy and management of the young squad, Pochettino agreed to leave the club at the end of the season. On 3 June 2024, Enzo Maresca was announced as Pochettino's replacement, with the Italian beginning his term as manager on 1 July 2024. He led Chelsea to win the Conference League in a 4–1 victory over Real Betis in the 2024-2025 season in Poland , as they became the first team to win all of the European trophies. League history [ edit ] 1905–1907 Division 2 (L2) 1907–1910 Division 1 (L1) 1910–1912 Division 2 (L2) 1912–1924 Division 1 (L1) 1924–1930 Division 2 (L2) 1930–1962 Division 1 (L1) 1962–1963 Division 2 (L2) 1963–1975 Division 1 (L1) 1975–1977 Division 2 (L2) 1977–1979 Division 1 (L1) 1979–1984 Division 2 (L2) 1984–1988 Division 1 (L1) 1988–1989 Division 2 (L2) 1989–1992 Division 1 (L1) 1992–present Premier League (L1) L1 = Level 1 of the football league system; L2 = Level 2 of the football league system ^ Glanvill, Rick (2006). Chelsea FC: The Official Biography . p. 55. ^ "Team History – Introduction" . Chelsea FC. Archived from the original on 27 May 2011 . Retrieved 11 May 2011 . ^ "The Birth of a Club" . Chelsea FC. 30 September 2004. Archived from the original on 18 December 2015 . Retrieved 16 December 2015 . ^ "General Club Information" . ChelseaFC.com . 18 January 2018. Archived from the original on 13 February 2022 . Retrieved 31 May 2021 . ^ "Origin.html" . home.adelphi.edu . Retrieved 31 May 2025 . ^ "Team History – 1905–29" . chelseafc.com . Chelsea FC. Archived from the original on 18 July 2011 . Retrieved 23 April 2014 . ^ Glanville, Brian (10 January 2004). "Little sign of change for Chelsea and their impossible dreams" . The Times . UK. Archived from the original on 26 September 2011 . Retrieved 15 March 2009 . ( registration required ) ^ "EFS Attendances" . european-football-statistics.co.uk . Archived from the original on 1 May 2019 . Retrieved 22 April 2021 . ^ "Historical attendances" . European Football Statistics. Archived from the original on 4 October 2011 . Retrieved 18 August 2011 . ^ "Historical attendances" . European Football Statistics. Archived from the original on 4 October 2011 . Retrieved 18 August 2011 . ^ "Historical attendances" . European Football Statistics. Archived from the original on 4 October 2011 . Retrieved 18 August 2011 . ^ "Historical attendances" . European Football Statistics. Archived from the original on 4 October 2011 . Retrieved 18 August 2011 . ^ "Historical attendances" . European Football Statistics. Archived from the original on 4 October 2011 . Retrieved 18 August 2011 . ^ "Historical attendances" . European Football Statistics. Archived from the original on 18 August 2012 . Retrieved 18 August 2011 . ^ "Between the Wars – Big Names and Big Crowds" . chelseafc.com . Chelsea FC. Archived from the original on 20 July 2012 . Retrieved 7 May 2012 . ^ Glanville, Brian (27 April 2005). "The great Chelsea surrender" . The Times . UK. Archived from the original on 12 December 2013 . Retrieved 29 December 2006 . ^ Glanvill, Rick (2005). Chelsea FC: The Official Biography . London: Headline. p. 254. ISBN 0755314654 . ^ Glanvill, Rick (2006). Chelsea FC: The Official Biography – The Definitive Story of the First 100 Years . Headline Book Publishing Ltd. p. 196. ISBN 978-0-7553-1466-9 . ^ Glanvill, Rick (2006). Chelsea FC: The Official Biography . pp. 84– 87. ^ Glanvill, Rick (2006). Chelsea FC: The Official Biography . pp. 143– 157. ^ "UK Football Clubs on the UK Stock Markets" . Football Economy. Archived from the original on 5 July 2012 . Retrieved 26 June 2012 . ^ Glanvill, Rick (2006). Chelsea FC: The Official Biography . pp. 89– 90. ^ Glanvill, Rick (2006). Chelsea FC: The Official Biography . pp. 90– 91. ^ "The battle of Stamford Bridge" . The Independent . 11 November 1995. Archived from the original on 20 July 2019 . Retrieved 20 July 2019 . ^ Chelsea saviour arrived in time for £23 m bill Archived 7 May 2008 at the Wayback Machine . URL accessed on 11 April 2006. ^ Bates sells off Chelsea to a Russian billionaire Archived 30 June 2019 at the Wayback Machine . URL accessed on 20 April 2014. ^ Keefe, Patrick Radden (17 March 2022). "How Putin's Oligarchs Bought London" . New Yorker . Archived from the original on 17 March 2022 . Retrieved 17 March 2022 . ^ Krishnan, Joe (21 March 2023). "Inside Roman Abramovich's Chelsea takeover and how Queen blocked his huge plans for club" . Archived from the original on 22 March 2023. ^ "Chelsea sack Ranieri" . BBC Sport . 1 June 2004. Archived from the original on 20 March 2017 . Retrieved 20 May 2012 . ^ "Chelsea appoint Mourinho" . BBC Sport . 2 June 2004. Archived from the original on 15 June 2019 . Retrieved 20 May 2012 . ^ Barlow, Matt (12 March 2006). "Terry Eyes Back-to-Back Titles" . Sporting Life . Archived from the original on 3 June 2012 . Retrieved 22 January 2007 . ^ "Chelsea name Grant as new manager" . BBC Sport . 20 September 2007. Archived from the original on 14 December 2007 . Retrieved 21 September 2007 . ^ a b "Chelsea FC record first Abramovich-era profit" . BBC. 9 November 2012. Archived from the original on 25 September 2015 . Retrieved 25 February 2015 . ^ "Chelsea 2–1 Everton" . BBC Sport . 30 May 2009. Archived from the original on 30 November 2017 . Retrieved 1 June 2009 . ^ "Chelsea 8–0 Wigan" . BBC Sport . 9 May 2010. Archived from the original on 7 March 2012 . Retrieved 16 May 2010 . ^ McNulty, Phil (5 May 2012). "Chelsea 2–1 Liverpool" . BBC Sport . Archived from the original on 18 January 2016 . Retrieved 20 May 2012 . ^ McNulty, Phil (19 May 2012). "Bayern Munich 1–1 Chelsea (aet, 4–3 pens)" . BBC Sport . Archived from the original on 16 January 2016 . Retrieved 20 May 2012 . ^ "Benfica 1–2 Chelsea" . BBC Sport . 15 May 2013. Archived from the original on 25 January 2016 . Retrieved 15 May 2013 . ^ "Chelsea claim last-gasp Europa League triumph" . Agence France-Presse. 15 May 2013. Archived from the original on 27 February 2014 . Retrieved 3 August 2013 . ^ "Chelsea 2–0 Tottenham Hotspur" . BBC Sport . 1 March 2015. Archived from the original on 19 March 2015 . Retrieved 13 April 2015 . ^ McNulty, Phil (3 May 2015). "Chelsea 1–0 Crystal Palace" . BBC Sport . Archived from the original on 4 May 2015 . Retrieved 4 May 2015 . ^ "Jose Mourinho: Chelsea sack boss after Premier League slump" . BBC Sport . 17 December 2015. Archived from the original on 9 February 2018 . Retrieved 22 March 2018 . ^ "Chelsea FC announces annual profit" . Chelsea F.C. 9 November 2012. Archived from the original on 11 November 2012 . Retrieved 9 November 2012 . ^ "Chelsea FC reports a record £18m in annual profit" . BBC. 14 November 2014. Archived from the original on 14 November 2014 . Retrieved 14 November 2014 . ^ "Chelsea FC financial results show record revenues" . Chelseafc.com. 31 December 2018. Archived from the original on 20 July 2019 . Retrieved 20 July 2019 . ^ "Chelsea crowned Premier League champions after win at West Brom – as it happened" . The Guardian . 12 May 2017. Archived from the original on 3 July 2018 . Retrieved 17 May 2017 . ^ "Conte sacked as Chelsea boss" . BBC Sport. 12 July 2018. Archived from the original on 17 June 2019 . Retrieved 17 June 2019 . ^ "Maurizio Sarri appointed Chelsea boss, replacing Antonio Conte" . Sky Sports . Sky Sports . Archived from the original on 17 June 2019 . Retrieved 17 June 2019 . ^ "Match report: Carabao Cup Final" . efl.com . English Football League. Archived from the original on 25 February 2019 . Retrieved 17 June 2019 . ^ "Frank Lampard confirmed as new Chelsea boss" . Chelsea FC . 4 July 2019. Archived from the original on 3 December 2019 . Retrieved 18 July 2019 . ^ "FA Cup final 2020: Arsenal 2-1 Chelsea" . 1 August 2020. Archived from the original on 1 August 2020 . Retrieved 1 August 2020 . ^ "Chelsea Football Club have today parted company with Head Coach Frank Lampard" . Chelsea Football Club . Archived from the original on 29 January 2021 . Retrieved 25 January 2021 . ^ "Tuchel joins Chelsea" . Chelsea FC. 26 January 2021. Archived from the original on 26 January 2021 . Retrieved 18 April 2021 . ^ "Man. City 0–1 Chelsea: Havertz gives Blues second Champions League triumph" . UEFA . Union of European Football Associations. 29 May 2021. Archived from the original on 2 June 2021 . Retrieved 2 June 2021 . ^ "Chelsea win Super Cup on penalties" . BBC Sport. Archived from the original on 24 August 2021 . Retrieved 11 August 2021 . ^ Club World Cup: Champions League holders Chelsea become eighth European winners Archived 31 May 2022 at the Wayback Machine on UEFA.com, 12 February 2022 ^ "Club statement" . Chelsea FC. 19 April 2021. Archived from the original on 18 April 2021 . Retrieved 19 April 2021 . ^ "Club statement" . Chelsea FC. 21 April 2021. Archived from the original on 20 April 2021 . Retrieved 21 April 2021 . ^ Tsepkovskiy, Georgy (19 May 2020). "Tony Cascarino reveals how Chelsea are checking on former players during pandemic" . talkSport. Archived from the original on 2 June 2021 – via Tribuna. ^ "Gary Neville Q&A - Man Utd, Chelsea, ownership and more" . Sky Sports. 17 March 2022. Archived from the original on 17 March 2022. ^ "Abramovich hands over Chelsea 'stewardship' " . BBC Sport . 27 February 2022. Archived from the original on 10 March 2022 . Retrieved 10 March 2022 . ^ "Trustees have not yet agreed to run Chelsea" . BBC Sport . 27 February 2022. Archived from the original on 9 March 2022 . Retrieved 10 March 2022 . ^ "Abramovich says he will sell Chelsea" . BBC Sport . Archived from the original on 2 March 2022 . Retrieved 2 March 2022 . ^ "Roman Abramovich confirms he is selling Chelsea – donating net proceeds to victims of war in Ukraine" . The Telegraph . 2 March 2022. ISSN 0307-1235 . Archived from the original on 2 March 2022 . Retrieved 2 March 2022 . ^ "Ukraine war: Roman Abramovich sanctioned by UK" . BBC News . 10 March 2022. Archived from the original on 10 March 2022 . Retrieved 10 March 2022 . ^ Massoudi, Arash; Hughes, Laura; Agini, Samuel (10 March 2022). "Roman Abramovich hit with sanctions by UK" . Financial Times . Archived from the original on 10 December 2022 . Retrieved 10 March 2022 . ^ "Roman Abramovich seen at peace talks between Russia and Ukraine in Istanbul after allegations he was poisoned" . Sky News . United Kingdom. 29 March 2022. Archived from the original on 29 March 2022. ^ Baker, Sinéad (29 March 2022). "Putin was handed a note from Zelenskyy seeking peace by Roman Abramovich, but replied 'tell him I will thrash them,' report says" . Business Insider . Archived from the original on 29 March 2022. ^ Salama, Vivian; Scheck, Justin; Colchester, Max (28 March 2022). "Ukrainian President Asked Biden Not to Sanction Abramovich, to Facilitate Peace Talks" . The Wall Street Journal . Archived from the original on 29 March 2022. ^ "Club statement" . ChelseaFC . Archived from the original on 7 May 2022 . Retrieved 7 May 2022 . ^ "Group Tax Strategy" . Chelsea F.C . Archived from the original on 5 April 2023 . Retrieved 4 April 2023 . ^ "Chelsea takeover: Todd Boehly's £4.25bn bid approved by government as Roman Abramovich era set to end" . Sky Sports. 25 May 2022. Archived from the original on 25 May 2022 . Retrieved 25 May 2022 . ^ Steinberg, Jacob (30 May 2022). "Chelsea owner Todd Boehly vows to bring success after completing takeover" . The Guardian . Archived from the original on 30 June 2023 . Retrieved 30 June 2023 . ^ "Chelsea chairman Bruce Buck to step down after 19 years following Todd Boehly takeover" . ESPN. 20 June 2022. Archived from the original on 30 June 2023 . Retrieved 30 June 2023 . ^ Steinberg, Jacob (20 June 2022). "Marina Granovskaia set to leave Chelsea as part of changes under new ownership" . The Guardian . Archived from the original on 30 June 2023 . Retrieved 30 June 2023 . ^ Steinberg, Jacob (27 June 2022). "Petr Cech leaves Chelsea as Maxwell and Edwards linked with senior role" . The Guardian . Archived from the original on 30 June 2023 . Retrieved 30 June 2023 . ^ Olley, James (6 April 2023). "Chelsea appoint Frank Lampard as caretaker manager" . ESPN . Retrieved 21 May 2024 . ^ "Frank Lampard: Chelsea Manager 2019 to 2021 & April to June 2023" . Blue Champions . 16 May 2024 . Retrieved 21 May 2024 . ^ "Chelsea hold Newcastle to close tough season" . BBC Sport. Archived from the original on 31 May 2023 . Retrieved 31 May 2023 . ^ "Mauricio Pochettino: Chelsea appoint ex-Tottenham boss as new manager" . BBC . 29 May 2023 . Retrieved 21 May 2024 . ^ Morgan, Richard (19 May 2024). "Chelsea 2-1 Bournemouth: Moises Caicedo scores from halfway line as Blues qualify for Europe next season" . Sky Sports . Retrieved 21 May 2024 . ^ Twomey, Liam; Johnson, Simon; Crafton, Adam (22 May 2024), Why Pochettino and Chelsea parted ways: 'Loneliness', injuries and resistance to club structure , The Athletic , archived from the original on 22 May 2024 ^ Olley, James (22 May 2024), Why Pochettino left Chelsea, and what it reveals about the club , ESPN , archived from the original on 22 May 2024 ^ Twomey, Liam (24 May 2024), Pochettino's Chelsea exit thrusts spotlight on Stewart and Winstanley , The Athletic , archived from the original on 24 May 2024 ^ Howell, Alex (10 May 2024), Chelsea sacking would not be a problem – Pochettino , BBC ^ "Club Statement: Mauricio Pochettino" . Chelsea F.C . 21 May 2024 . Retrieved 21 May 2024 . ^ Steinberg, Jacob (21 May 2024), "Chelsea target Ipswich's McKenna after Pochettino leaves by mutual agreement" , The Guardian , archived from the original on 21 May 2024 ^ "Enzo Maresca to become Chelsea Men's Head Coach" . www.chelseafc.com . Retrieved 5 June 2024 . ^ "Real Betis 1-4 Chelsea: Blues crowned Conference League champions after Enzo Maresca changes in final spark second-half comeback" . Sky Sports . Archived from the original on 30 May 2025 . Retrieved 31 May 2025 . ^ "We've won it all – again! Chelsea's European trophy cabinet" . www.chelseafc.com . Retrieved 31 May 2025 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Founding and early years (1905–1952)

Founding and early years (1905–1952) [ edit ] Main article: History of Chelsea F.C. (1905–1952) The first Chelsea team, September 1905 In 1904, Gus Mears acquired the Stamford Bridge athletics stadium in Fulham with the aim of turning it into a football ground. An offer to lease it to nearby Fulham F.C. was turned down, so Mears opted to found his own club to use the stadium. As there was already a team named Fulham in the borough, the name of the adjacent borough of Chelsea was chosen for the new club; names like Kensington FC , Stamford Bridge FC and London FC were considered. Chelsea F.C. was founded on 10 March 1905 at The Rising Sun pub (now The Butcher's Hook), opposite the present-day main entrance to the ground on Fulham Road , and were elected to the Football League shortly afterwards. Chelsea won promotion to the First Division in their second season, and yo-yoed between the First and Second Divisions in its early years. The team reached the 1915 FA Cup final , where they lost to Sheffield United at Old Trafford, and finished third in the First Division in 1920, the club's best league campaign to that point. Chelsea had a reputation for signing star players and attracted large crowds. The club had the highest average attendance in English football in ten separate seasons including 1907–08 , 1909–10 , 1911–12 , 1912–13 , 1913–14 and 1919–20 . They were FA Cup semi-finalists in 1920 and 1932 and remained in the First Division throughout the 1930s, but success eluded the club in the inter-war years. ^ Glanvill, Rick (2006). Chelsea FC: The Official Biography . p. 55. ^ "Team History – Introduction" . Chelsea FC. Archived from the original on 27 May 2011 . Retrieved 11 May 2011 . ^ "The Birth of a Club" . Chelsea FC. 30 September 2004. Archived from the original on 18 December 2015 . Retrieved 16 December 2015 . ^ "General Club Information" . ChelseaFC.com . 18 January 2018. Archived from the original on 13 February 2022 . Retrieved 31 May 2021 . ^ "Origin.html" . home.adelphi.edu . Retrieved 31 May 2025 . ^ "Team History – 1905–29" . chelseafc.com . Chelsea FC. Archived from the original on 18 July 2011 . Retrieved 23 April 2014 . ^ Glanville, Brian (10 January 2004). "Little sign of change for Chelsea and their impossible dreams" . The Times . UK. Archived from the original on 26 September 2011 . Retrieved 15 March 2009 . ( registration required ) ^ "EFS Attendances" . european-football-statistics.co.uk . Archived from the original on 1 May 2019 . Retrieved 22 April 2021 . ^ "Historical attendances" . European Football Statistics. Archived from the original on 4 October 2011 . Retrieved 18 August 2011 . ^ "Historical attendances" . European Football Statistics. Archived from the original on 4 October 2011 . Retrieved 18 August 2011 . ^ "Historical attendances" . European Football Statistics. Archived from the original on 4 October 2011 . Retrieved 18 August 2011 . ^ "Historical attendances" . European Football Statistics. Archived from the original on 4 October 2011 . Retrieved 18 August 2011 . ^ "Historical attendances" . European Football Statistics. Archived from the original on 4 October 2011 . Retrieved 18 August 2011 . ^ "Historical attendances" . European Football Statistics. Archived from the original on 18 August 2012 . Retrieved 18 August 2011 . ^ "Between the Wars – Big Names and Big Crowds" . chelseafc.com . Chelsea FC. Archived from the original on 20 July 2012 . Retrieved 7 May 2012 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Modernisation and the first league championship (1952–1983)

Modernisation and the first league championship (1952–1983) [ edit ] Main article: History of Chelsea F.C. (1952–1983) Chart showing the progress of Chelsea's league finishes from 1906 to the present Former Arsenal and England centre-forward Ted Drake was appointed manager in 1952 and proceeded to modernise the club. He removed the club's Chelsea pensioner crest, improved the youth set-up and training regime, rebuilt the side with shrewd signings from the lower divisions and amateur leagues, and led Chelsea to their first major trophy success – the League championship – in 1954–55 . The following season saw UEFA create the European Champions' Cup , but after objections from The Football League , Chelsea were persuaded to withdraw from the competition before it started. Chelsea failed to build on this success, and spent the remainder of the 1950s in mid-table. Drake was dismissed in 1961 and replaced by player-coach Tommy Docherty . Docherty built a new team around the group of talented young players emerging from the club's youth set-up, and Chelsea challenged for honours throughout the 1960s, enduring several near-misses. They were on course for a treble of League, FA Cup and League Cup going into the final stages of the 1964–65 season, winning the League Cup but faltering late on in the other two. In three seasons the side were beaten in three major semi-finals and were FA Cup runners-up. Under Docherty's successor, Dave Sexton , Chelsea won the FA Cup in 1970 , beating Leeds United 2–1 in a final replay. The following year, Chelsea took their first European honour, a UEFA Cup Winners' Cup triumph, with another replayed win, this time over Real Madrid in Athens. ^ Glanville, Brian (27 April 2005). "The great Chelsea surrender" . The Times . UK. Archived from the original on 12 December 2013 . Retrieved 29 December 2006 . ^ Glanvill, Rick (2005). Chelsea FC: The Official Biography . London: Headline. p. 254. ISBN 0755314654 . ^ Glanvill, Rick (2006). Chelsea FC: The Official Biography – The Definitive Story of the First 100 Years . Headline Book Publishing Ltd. p. 196. ISBN 978-0-7553-1466-9 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Redevelopment and financial crisis (1983–2003)

Redevelopment and financial crisis (1983–2003) [ edit ] Main article: History of Chelsea F.C. (1983–2003) The late 1970s through to the '80s was a turbulent period for Chelsea. An ambitious redevelopment of Stamford Bridge threatened the financial stability of the club, star players were sold and the team were relegated. Further problems were caused by a notorious hooligan element among the support, which was to plague the club throughout the decade. In 1982, at the nadir of their fortunes, Chelsea were acquired by Ken Bates from Mears' great-nephew Brian Mears , for the nominal sum of £1. Bates bought a controlling stake in the club and floated Chelsea on the AIM stock exchange in March 1996 although by now the Stamford Bridge freehold had been sold to property developers, meaning the club faced losing their home. On the pitch, the team had fared little better, coming close to relegation to the Third Division for the first time, but in 1983 manager John Neal put together an impressive new team for minimal outlay. Chelsea won the Second Division title in 1983–84 and established themselves in the top division with two top-six finishes, before being relegated again in 1988. The club bounced back immediately by winning the Second Division championship in 1988–89. After a long-running legal battle, Bates reunited the stadium freehold with the club in 1992 by doing a deal with the banks of the property developers, who had been bankrupted by a market crash. In the mid-1990s Chelsea fan and businessman Matthew Harding became a director and loaned the club £26 million to build the new North Stand and invest in new players. Chelsea's form in the new Premier League was unconvincing, although they did reach the 1994 FA Cup final . The appointment of Ruud Gullit as player-manager in 1996 began an upturn in the team's fortunes. He added several top international players to the side and led the club to their first major honour since 1971, the FA Cup . Gullit was replaced by Gianluca Vialli , whose reign saw Chelsea win the League Cup , the UEFA Cup Winners' Cup and the UEFA Super Cup in 1998 , and the FA Cup in 2000 . They mounted a strong title challenge in 1998–99, finishing four points behind champions Manchester United, and made their first appearance in the UEFA Champions League . Vialli was sacked in favour of Claudio Ranieri , who guided Chelsea to the 2002 FA Cup final and Champions League qualification in 2002–03. ^ Glanvill, Rick (2006). Chelsea FC: The Official Biography . pp. 84– 87. ^ Glanvill, Rick (2006). Chelsea FC: The Official Biography . pp. 143– 157. ^ "UK Football Clubs on the UK Stock Markets" . Football Economy. Archived from the original on 5 July 2012 . Retrieved 26 June 2012 . ^ Glanvill, Rick (2006). Chelsea FC: The Official Biography . pp. 89– 90. ^ Glanvill, Rick (2006). Chelsea FC: The Official Biography . pp. 90– 91. ^ "The battle of Stamford Bridge" . The Independent . 11 November 1995. Archived from the original on 20 July 2019 . Retrieved 20 July 2019 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Abramovich ownership (2003–2022)

Abramovich ownership (2003–2022) [ edit ] Main article: History of Chelsea F.C. (2003–2022) Abramovich at Stamford Bridge during a 4–0 victory over Portsmouth , August 2008 With the club facing an apparent financial crisis, Bates unexpectedly sold Chelsea F.C. in June 2003 for £60 million. In so doing, he reportedly recognised a personal profit of £17 million on the club he had bought for £1 in 1982 (his stake had been diluted to just below 30% over the years). The club's new owner was Russian oligarch and billionaire Roman Abramovich , who took on responsibility for the club's £80 million of debt, quickly paying some of it. Sergei Pugachev alleged Chelsea was bought on Putin's orders, an allegation Abramovich has denied. Bates mentioned that Abramovich was in talks to buy Manchester United and Tottenham Hotspur before he bought Chelsea in a deal sealed in a day. Chelsea players celebrate their first UEFA Champions League title against Bayern Munich (2012). Over £100 million was spent on new players, but Ranieri was unable to deliver any trophies, and was replaced by José Mourinho . Under Mourinho, Chelsea became the fifth English team to win back-to-back league championships since the Second World War ( 2004–05 and 2005–06 ), in addition to winning an FA Cup ( 2007 ) and two League Cups ( 2005 and 2007 ). After a poor start to the 2007–08 season, Mourinho was replaced by Avram Grant , who led the club to their first UEFA Champions League final , which they lost on penalties to Manchester United . The club did not turn a profit in the first nine years of Abramovich's ownership, and made record losses of £140m in June 2005. In 2009, under caretaker manager Guus Hiddink , Chelsea won another FA Cup . In 2009–10 , his successor Carlo Ancelotti led them to their first Premier League and FA Cup Double , becoming the first English top-flight club to score 100 league goals in a season since 1963 . In 2012, Roberto Di Matteo led Chelsea to their seventh FA Cup , and their first UEFA Champions League title , beating Bayern Munich 4–3 on penalties, the first London club to win the trophy. The following year the club won the UEFA Europa League , making them the first club to hold two major European titles simultaneously and one of five clubs to have won the three main UEFA trophies. Mourinho returned as manager in 2013 and led Chelsea to League Cup success in March 2015, and the Premier League title two months later. Mourinho was sacked after four months of the following season after a poor start. In November 2012, Chelsea announced a profit of £1.4 million for the year ending 30 June 2012, the first time the club had made a profit under Abramovich's ownership. This was followed by a loss in 2013 and then their highest ever profit of £18.4 million for the year to June 2014. In 2018 Chelsea announced a record after-tax profit of £62 million. In 2017, under new coach Antonio Conte , Chelsea won their sixth English title and the following season won their eighth FA Cup. In 2018 Conte was sacked after a fifth-place finish and replaced with Maurizio Sarri , under whom Chelsea reached the League Cup final , which they lost on penalties to Manchester City and won the Europa League for a second time, beating Arsenal 4–1 in the final. Sarri then left the club to become manager of Juventus and was replaced by former Chelsea player Frank Lampard . In Lampard's first season , he guided Chelsea to fourth place in the Premier League and reached the FA Cup final , losing 2–1 to Arsenal. Lampard was dismissed in January 2021 and replaced with Thomas Tuchel . Players of Chelsea celebrating their first FIFA Club World Cup title (2021) after beating Brazilian side Palmeiras in the final Under Tuchel, Chelsea reached the FA Cup final , losing 1–0 to Leicester City , and won their second UEFA Champions League title with a 1–0 win over Manchester City in Porto. The club subsequently won the 2021 UEFA Super Cup for the second time by defeating Villarreal 6–5 in a penalty shootout, after it had ended 1–1 in Belfast after extra time, and the 2021 FIFA Club World Cup (the first for the club) in Abu Dhabi after beating Brazilian Palmeiras 2–1. On 18 April 2021, Chelsea announced it would be joining a new European Super League , a league competition comprising the biggest European clubs. After a backlash from supporters, the club announced their withdrawal days later. The club opted against furloughing their non-matchday staff during the COVID-19 pandemic , with the decision reportedly coming from Abramovich himself. Chelsea, one of the first clubs to help the National Health Service , lent the club-owned Millennium Hotel for the NHS staff. "[Chelsea] have been a success machine for the last 10–20 years. That doesn't just come with money, we've seen at Manchester United and Arsenal where they've put billions into the team and not had the success that Chelsea have had. Chelsea can feel comfortable that they'll have rich owners, but will they have football-smart owners? Because that's what Abramovich has been. — Gary Neville on Abramovich's legacy. Amidst financial sanctions leveled at Russian oligarchs by Western governments in response to the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine , Abramovich stated on 26 February that he would hand over the stewardship of Chelsea to the trustees of the Chelsea Foundation. The trustees did not immediately agree, due to legal concerns regarding the rules of the Charity Commission for England and Wales . A week later, Abramovich wrote-off the £1.5 billion the club owed him, and put the club up for sale, pledging to donate net proceeds from it to the victims of the war in Ukraine. On 10 March 2022, the British government announced sanctions on Abramovich with Chelsea allowed to operate under a special license until 31 May. In the following weeks, reports emerged of Abramovich's involvement in brokering a peace deal between Ukraine and Russia and securing safe evacuation corridors in besieged Ukrainian cities. An American government official revealed that the Ukrainian president, Volodymyr Zelenskyy had requested that the US government not levy sanctions against Abramovich given his importance to war relief efforts. ^ Chelsea saviour arrived in time for £23 m bill Archived 7 May 2008 at the Wayback Machine . URL accessed on 11 April 2006. ^ Bates sells off Chelsea to a Russian billionaire Archived 30 June 2019 at the Wayback Machine . URL accessed on 20 April 2014. ^ Keefe, Patrick Radden (17 March 2022). "How Putin's Oligarchs Bought London" . New Yorker . Archived from the original on 17 March 2022 . Retrieved 17 March 2022 . ^ Krishnan, Joe (21 March 2023). "Inside Roman Abramovich's Chelsea takeover and how Queen blocked his huge plans for club" . Archived from the original on 22 March 2023. ^ "Chelsea sack Ranieri" . BBC Sport . 1 June 2004. Archived from the original on 20 March 2017 . Retrieved 20 May 2012 . ^ "Chelsea appoint Mourinho" . BBC Sport . 2 June 2004. Archived from the original on 15 June 2019 . Retrieved 20 May 2012 . ^ Barlow, Matt (12 March 2006). "Terry Eyes Back-to-Back Titles" . Sporting Life . Archived from the original on 3 June 2012 . Retrieved 22 January 2007 . ^ "Chelsea name Grant as new manager" . BBC Sport . 20 September 2007. Archived from the original on 14 December 2007 . Retrieved 21 September 2007 . ^ a b "Chelsea FC record first Abramovich-era profit" . BBC. 9 November 2012. Archived from the original on 25 September 2015 . Retrieved 25 February 2015 . ^ "Chelsea 2–1 Everton" . BBC Sport . 30 May 2009. Archived from the original on 30 November 2017 . Retrieved 1 June 2009 . ^ "Chelsea 8–0 Wigan" . BBC Sport . 9 May 2010. Archived from the original on 7 March 2012 . Retrieved 16 May 2010 . ^ McNulty, Phil (5 May 2012). "Chelsea 2–1 Liverpool" . BBC Sport . Archived from the original on 18 January 2016 . Retrieved 20 May 2012 . ^ McNulty, Phil (19 May 2012). "Bayern Munich 1–1 Chelsea (aet, 4–3 pens)" . BBC Sport . Archived from the original on 16 January 2016 . Retrieved 20 May 2012 . ^ "Benfica 1–2 Chelsea" . BBC Sport . 15 May 2013. Archived from the original on 25 January 2016 . Retrieved 15 May 2013 . ^ "Chelsea claim last-gasp Europa League triumph" . Agence France-Presse. 15 May 2013. Archived from the original on 27 February 2014 . Retrieved 3 August 2013 . ^ "Chelsea 2–0 Tottenham Hotspur" . BBC Sport . 1 March 2015. Archived from the original on 19 March 2015 . Retrieved 13 April 2015 . ^ McNulty, Phil (3 May 2015). "Chelsea 1–0 Crystal Palace" . BBC Sport . Archived from the original on 4 May 2015 . Retrieved 4 May 2015 . ^ "Jose Mourinho: Chelsea sack boss after Premier League slump" . BBC Sport . 17 December 2015. Archived from the original on 9 February 2018 . Retrieved 22 March 2018 . ^ "Chelsea FC announces annual profit" . Chelsea F.C. 9 November 2012. Archived from the original on 11 November 2012 . Retrieved 9 November 2012 . ^ "Chelsea FC reports a record £18m in annual profit" . BBC. 14 November 2014. Archived from the original on 14 November 2014 . Retrieved 14 November 2014 . ^ "Chelsea FC financial results show record revenues" . Chelseafc.com. 31 December 2018. Archived from the original on 20 July 2019 . Retrieved 20 July 2019 . ^ "Chelsea crowned Premier League champions after win at West Brom – as it happened" . The Guardian . 12 May 2017. Archived from the original on 3 July 2018 . Retrieved 17 May 2017 . ^ "Conte sacked as Chelsea boss" . BBC Sport. 12 July 2018. Archived from the original on 17 June 2019 . Retrieved 17 June 2019 . ^ "Maurizio Sarri appointed Chelsea boss, replacing Antonio Conte" . Sky Sports . Sky Sports . Archived from the original on 17 June 2019 . Retrieved 17 June 2019 . ^ "Match report: Carabao Cup Final" . efl.com . English Football League. Archived from the original on 25 February 2019 . Retrieved 17 June 2019 . ^ "Frank Lampard confirmed as new Chelsea boss" . Chelsea FC . 4 July 2019. Archived from the original on 3 December 2019 . Retrieved 18 July 2019 . ^ "FA Cup final 2020: Arsenal 2-1 Chelsea" . 1 August 2020. Archived from the original on 1 August 2020 . Retrieved 1 August 2020 . ^ "Chelsea Football Club have today parted company with Head Coach Frank Lampard" . Chelsea Football Club . Archived from the original on 29 January 2021 . Retrieved 25 January 2021 . ^ "Tuchel joins Chelsea" . Chelsea FC. 26 January 2021. Archived from the original on 26 January 2021 . Retrieved 18 April 2021 . ^ "Man. City 0–1 Chelsea: Havertz gives Blues second Champions League triumph" . UEFA . Union of European Football Associations. 29 May 2021. Archived from the original on 2 June 2021 . Retrieved 2 June 2021 . ^ "Chelsea win Super Cup on penalties" . BBC Sport. Archived from the original on 24 August 2021 . Retrieved 11 August 2021 . ^ Club World Cup: Champions League holders Chelsea become eighth European winners Archived 31 May 2022 at the Wayback Machine on UEFA.com, 12 February 2022 ^ "Club statement" . Chelsea FC. 19 April 2021. Archived from the original on 18 April 2021 . Retrieved 19 April 2021 . ^ "Club statement" . Chelsea FC. 21 April 2021. Archived from the original on 20 April 2021 . Retrieved 21 April 2021 . ^ Tsepkovskiy, Georgy (19 May 2020). "Tony Cascarino reveals how Chelsea are checking on former players during pandemic" . talkSport. Archived from the original on 2 June 2021 – via Tribuna. ^ "Gary Neville Q&A - Man Utd, Chelsea, ownership and more" . Sky Sports. 17 March 2022. Archived from the original on 17 March 2022. ^ "Abramovich hands over Chelsea 'stewardship' " . BBC Sport . 27 February 2022. Archived from the original on 10 March 2022 . Retrieved 10 March 2022 . ^ "Trustees have not yet agreed to run Chelsea" . BBC Sport . 27 February 2022. Archived from the original on 9 March 2022 . Retrieved 10 March 2022 . ^ "Abramovich says he will sell Chelsea" . BBC Sport . Archived from the original on 2 March 2022 . Retrieved 2 March 2022 . ^ "Roman Abramovich confirms he is selling Chelsea – donating net proceeds to victims of war in Ukraine" . The Telegraph . 2 March 2022. ISSN 0307-1235 . Archived from the original on 2 March 2022 . Retrieved 2 March 2022 . ^ "Ukraine war: Roman Abramovich sanctioned by UK" . BBC News . 10 March 2022. Archived from the original on 10 March 2022 . Retrieved 10 March 2022 . ^ Massoudi, Arash; Hughes, Laura; Agini, Samuel (10 March 2022). "Roman Abramovich hit with sanctions by UK" . Financial Times . Archived from the original on 10 December 2022 . Retrieved 10 March 2022 . ^ "Roman Abramovich seen at peace talks between Russia and Ukraine in Istanbul after allegations he was poisoned" . Sky News . United Kingdom. 29 March 2022. Archived from the original on 29 March 2022. ^ Baker, Sinéad (29 March 2022). "Putin was handed a note from Zelenskyy seeking peace by Roman Abramovich, but replied 'tell him I will thrash them,' report says" . Business Insider . Archived from the original on 29 March 2022. ^ Salama, Vivian; Scheck, Justin; Colchester, Max (28 March 2022). "Ukrainian President Asked Biden Not to Sanction Abramovich, to Facilitate Peace Talks" . The Wall Street Journal . Archived from the original on 29 March 2022.

______________________________________________________________________

### BlueCo ownership (2022–present)

BlueCo ownership (2022–present) [ edit ] Main article: History of Chelsea F.C. (2022–present) On 7 May 2022, Chelsea confirmed that terms had been agreed for a new ownership group, led by Todd Boehly , Clearlake Capital , Mark Walter and Hansjörg Wyss , to acquire the club. The group was later known as BlueCo . The UK government approved the £4.25bn takeover, ending Abramovich's 19-year ownership of the club. Bruce Buck , who served as chairman since 2003, was replaced by Boehly, while long-serving club director and de facto sporting director Marina Granovskaia left, as did Petr Čech from the role of technical and performance advisor. The club brought in Graham Potter from Brighton & Hove Albion to replace Tuchel on 8 September 2022. Chelsea won six of the first 11 games of the 2022–23 season , but only five of the remaining 27. Potter would be sacked on 2 April 2023 and eventually be replaced by Frank Lampard as caretaker manager. Under Lampard the club would only win one of their last 11 matches resulting in a 9% win percentage. Lampard's win percentage was the worst for any Chelsea manager who managed three games or more. Chelsea scored a record-low 38 goals across the entire season and finished in the bottom half of the table for the first time since 1995–96. Mauricio Pochettino was announced as Lampard's replacement in 2023. He led Chelsea to a 6th-place finish, and a place in the Conference League play-off round qualification . He also led Chelsea to the 2024 EFL Cup final , narrowly losing 0–1 to Liverpool. After clashing with the sporting directors Laurence Stewart and Paul Winstanley over strategy and management of the young squad, Pochettino agreed to leave the club at the end of the season. On 3 June 2024, Enzo Maresca was announced as Pochettino's replacement, with the Italian beginning his term as manager on 1 July 2024. He led Chelsea to win the Conference League in a 4–1 victory over Real Betis in the 2024-2025 season in Poland , as they became the first team to win all of the European trophies. ^ "Club statement" . ChelseaFC . Archived from the original on 7 May 2022 . Retrieved 7 May 2022 . ^ "Group Tax Strategy" . Chelsea F.C . Archived from the original on 5 April 2023 . Retrieved 4 April 2023 . ^ "Chelsea takeover: Todd Boehly's £4.25bn bid approved by government as Roman Abramovich era set to end" . Sky Sports. 25 May 2022. Archived from the original on 25 May 2022 . Retrieved 25 May 2022 . ^ Steinberg, Jacob (30 May 2022). "Chelsea owner Todd Boehly vows to bring success after completing takeover" . The Guardian . Archived from the original on 30 June 2023 . Retrieved 30 June 2023 . ^ "Chelsea chairman Bruce Buck to step down after 19 years following Todd Boehly takeover" . ESPN. 20 June 2022. Archived from the original on 30 June 2023 . Retrieved 30 June 2023 . ^ Steinberg, Jacob (20 June 2022). "Marina Granovskaia set to leave Chelsea as part of changes under new ownership" . The Guardian . Archived from the original on 30 June 2023 . Retrieved 30 June 2023 . ^ Steinberg, Jacob (27 June 2022). "Petr Cech leaves Chelsea as Maxwell and Edwards linked with senior role" . The Guardian . Archived from the original on 30 June 2023 . Retrieved 30 June 2023 . ^ Olley, James (6 April 2023). "Chelsea appoint Frank Lampard as caretaker manager" . ESPN . Retrieved 21 May 2024 . ^ "Frank Lampard: Chelsea Manager 2019 to 2021 & April to June 2023" . Blue Champions . 16 May 2024 . Retrieved 21 May 2024 . ^ "Chelsea hold Newcastle to close tough season" . BBC Sport. Archived from the original on 31 May 2023 . Retrieved 31 May 2023 . ^ "Mauricio Pochettino: Chelsea appoint ex-Tottenham boss as new manager" . BBC . 29 May 2023 . Retrieved 21 May 2024 . ^ Morgan, Richard (19 May 2024). "Chelsea 2-1 Bournemouth: Moises Caicedo scores from halfway line as Blues qualify for Europe next season" . Sky Sports . Retrieved 21 May 2024 . ^ Twomey, Liam; Johnson, Simon; Crafton, Adam (22 May 2024), Why Pochettino and Chelsea parted ways: 'Loneliness', injuries and resistance to club structure , The Athletic , archived from the original on 22 May 2024 ^ Olley, James (22 May 2024), Why Pochettino left Chelsea, and what it reveals about the club , ESPN , archived from the original on 22 May 2024 ^ Twomey, Liam (24 May 2024), Pochettino's Chelsea exit thrusts spotlight on Stewart and Winstanley , The Athletic , archived from the original on 24 May 2024 ^ Howell, Alex (10 May 2024), Chelsea sacking would not be a problem – Pochettino , BBC ^ "Club Statement: Mauricio Pochettino" . Chelsea F.C . 21 May 2024 . Retrieved 21 May 2024 . ^ Steinberg, Jacob (21 May 2024), "Chelsea target Ipswich's McKenna after Pochettino leaves by mutual agreement" , The Guardian , archived from the original on 21 May 2024 ^ "Enzo Maresca to become Chelsea Men's Head Coach" . www.chelseafc.com . Retrieved 5 June 2024 . ^ "Real Betis 1-4 Chelsea: Blues crowned Conference League champions after Enzo Maresca changes in final spark second-half comeback" . Sky Sports . Archived from the original on 30 May 2025 . Retrieved 31 May 2025 . ^ "We've won it all – again! Chelsea's European trophy cabinet" . www.chelseafc.com . Retrieved 31 May 2025 .

______________________________________________________________________

### League history

League history [ edit ] 1905–1907 Division 2 (L2) 1907–1910 Division 1 (L1) 1910–1912 Division 2 (L2) 1912–1924 Division 1 (L1) 1924–1930 Division 2 (L2) 1930–1962 Division 1 (L1) 1962–1963 Division 2 (L2) 1963–1975 Division 1 (L1) 1975–1977 Division 2 (L2) 1977–1979 Division 1 (L1) 1979–1984 Division 2 (L2) 1984–1988 Division 1 (L1) 1988–1989 Division 2 (L2) 1989–1992 Division 1 (L1) 1992–present Premier League (L1) L1 = Level 1 of the football league system; L2 = Level 2 of the football league system

______________________________________________________________________

## Stadium

Stadium [ edit ] Main article: Stamford Bridge (stadium) Stamford Bridge , West Stand Chelsea have only had one home ground, Stamford Bridge, where they have played since the team's foundation. The stadium was officially opened on 28 April 1877 and for the next 28 years it was used by the London Athletic Club as an arena for athletics meetings. In 1904, the ground was acquired by businessman Gus Mears and his brother Joseph , who had purchased nearby land (formerly a large market garden) with the aim of staging football matches on the now 12.5 acre (51,000 m 2 ) site. Stamford Bridge was designed for the Mears family by the noted football architect Archibald Leitch , who had designed Ibrox , Craven Cottage and Hampden Park . Most football clubs were founded first, and then sought grounds in which to play, but Chelsea were founded for Stamford Bridge. Starting with an open bowl-like design and one grandstand with seating, Stamford Bridge had an original capacity of around 100,000, making it the second biggest stadium in England after Crystal Palace . The early 1930s saw the construction of a terrace on the southern part of the ground with a roof that covered around 20% of the stand. As the roof resembled that of a corrugated iron shed, the stand eventually became known as the "Shed End", although it is unknown who first coined this name. From the 1960s, it became known as the home of Chelsea's most loyal and vocal supporters. In 1939, another small seated stand was added, the North Stand, which remained until its demolition in 1975. In the early 1970s, the club's owners announced a modernisation of Stamford Bridge with plans for a state-of-the-art 50,000 all-seater stadium. Work began in 1972 but the project was beset with problems and ultimately only the East Stand was completed; the cost brought the club close to bankruptcy. The freehold was sold to property developers and the club were under threat of eviction from the stadium. Following a long legal battle, it was not until the mid-1990s that Chelsea's future at Stamford Bridge was secured and renovation work resumed. The north, west and southern parts of the ground were converted into all-seater stands and moved closer to the pitch, a process completed by 2001. The East Stand was retained from the 1970s development. In 1996, the north stand was renamed the Matthew Harding stand, after the club director and benefactor who was killed in a helicopter crash earlier that year. Chelsea vs. West Bromwich Albion at Stamford Bridge on 23 September 1905; Chelsea won 1–0. When Stamford Bridge was redeveloped in the Bates era many additional features were added to the complex including two Millennium & Copthorne hotels , apartments, bars, restaurants, the Chelsea Megastore, and an interactive visitor attraction called Chelsea World of Sport. The intention was that these facilities would provide extra revenue to support the football side of the business, but they were less successful than hoped and before the Abramovich takeover in 2003 the debt taken on to finance them was a major burden on the club. Soon after the takeover a decision was taken to drop the "Chelsea Village" brand and refocus on Chelsea as a football club. However, the stadium is sometimes still referred to as part of "Chelsea Village" or "The Village" . The Stamford Bridge freehold , the pitch , the turnstiles and Chelsea's naming rights are now owned by Chelsea Pitch Owners , a non-profit organisation in which fans are the shareholders. The CPO was created to ensure the stadium could never again be sold to developers. As a condition for using the Chelsea FC name, the club has to play its first team matches at Stamford Bridge, which means that if the club moves to a new stadium, they may have to change their name. Chelsea's training ground is located in Cobham, Surrey . Chelsea moved to Cobham in 2004. Their previous training ground in Harlington was taken over by QPR in 2005. The new training facilities in Cobham were completed in 2007. Aerial view of present-day Stamford Bridge Stamford Bridge hosted the FA Cup final from 1920 to 1922, has held 10 FA Cup Semi-finals (most recently in 1978 ), ten FA Charity Shield matches (the last in 1970 ), and three England international matches, the last in 1932; it was the venue for an unofficial Victory International in 1946. The 2013 UEFA Women's Champions League final was played at Stamford Bridge as well. The stadium has been used for a variety of other sports. In October 1905 it hosted a rugby union match between the All Blacks and Middlesex, and in 1914 hosted a baseball match between the touring New York Giants and the Chicago White Sox . It was the venue for a boxing match between world flyweight champion Jimmy Wilde and Joe Conn in 1918. The running track was used for dirt track racing between 1928 and 1932, greyhound racing from 1933 to 1968, and Midget car racing in 1948. In 1980, Stamford Bridge hosted the first international floodlit cricket match in the UK, between Essex and the West Indies . It was the home stadium of the London Monarchs American Football team for the 1997 season . The previous owner Abramovich and the club's then executive board determined that a larger stadium is necessary in order for Chelsea to stay competitive with rival clubs who have significantly larger stadia, such as Arsenal and Manchester United . Owing to its location next to a main road and two railway lines, fans can only enter Stamford Bridge via the Fulham Road , which places constraints on expansion due to health and safety regulations. The club have consistently affirmed their desire to keep Chelsea at their current home, but have nonetheless been linked with a move to various nearby sites, including the Earls Court Exhibition Centre , Battersea Power Station and the Chelsea Barracks . In October 2011, a proposal from the club to buy back the freehold to the land on which Stamford Bridge sits was voted down by Chelsea Pitch Owners shareholders. In May 2012, the club made a formal bid to purchase Battersea Power Station, with a view to developing the site into a new stadium, but lost out to a Malaysian consortium. The club subsequently announced plans to redevelop Stamford Bridge into a 60,000-seater stadium, and in January 2017 these plans were approved by Hammersmith and Fulham council. However, on 31 May 2018, the club released a statement saying that the new stadium project had been put on hold indefinitely, citing "the current unfavourable investment climate". In July 2022, it was reported that the club's new owner Todd Boehly had appointed American architect Janet Marie Smith to oversee the renovation of the stadium. ^ a b c d e f g "Stadium History – Introduction" . chelseafc.com . Chelsea FC. Archived from the original on 12 May 2012 . Retrieved 20 May 2012 . ^ Glanvill, Rick (2006). Chelsea FC: The Official Biography . pp. 69– 71. ^ "Matthew Harding Remembered" . chelseafc.com . Archived from the original on 1 July 2019 . Retrieved 1 July 2019 . ^ Glanvill, Rick (2006). Chelsea FC: The Official Biography . pp. 91– 92. ^ Veysey, Wayne (24 May 2005). "QPR take over Chelsea training ground" . London Evening Standard . Archived from the original on 25 October 2012 . Retrieved 24 June 2009 . ^ "Chelsea's new training ground for the future" . BBC London. 5 July 2007. Archived from the original on 4 February 2009 . Retrieved 24 June 2009 . ^ "Cup Final Statistics" . The Football Association. Archived from the original on 16 May 2012 . Retrieved 18 February 2011 . ^ "England's Matches: Unofficial" . Englandfootballonline . Archived from the original on 22 January 2011 . Retrieved 18 February 2011 . ^ "2013 final: Stamford Bridge" . UEFA. Archived from the original on 15 October 2013 . Retrieved 11 March 2014 . ^ "All Blacks" . Rugbyfootballhistory.com. Archived from the original on 21 February 2009 . Retrieved 18 February 2011 . ^ "Countdown to SABR Day 2011" . BaseballGB.co.uk. Archived from the original on 17 January 2011 . Retrieved 18 February 2011 . ^ "Jimmy Wilde: The Original Explosive Thin Man" . Cyberboxingzone.com. Archived from the original on 8 July 2011 . Retrieved 18 February 2011 . ^ "Stamford Bridge Speedway" . guskuhn.net. Archived from the original on 23 July 2011 . Retrieved 18 February 2011 . ^ "U.S. Invades England 1948" . speedcarworld.com. Archived from the original on 25 March 2012 . Retrieved 19 February 2011 . ^ "Twenty20 before Twenty20" . spincricket.com. Archived from the original on 11 January 2012 . Retrieved 18 February 2011 . ^ "London Monarchs" . Britballnow.co.uk. Archived from the original on 21 January 2012 . Retrieved 19 February 2011 . ^ "Chelsea chief: We will drop out of Europe's elite without new stadium" . BBC. 25 April 2012. Archived from the original on 4 May 2012 . Retrieved 6 May 2012 . ^ Glanvill, Rick (2006). Chelsea FC: The Official Biography . p. 76. ^ "Kenyon confirms Blues will stay at Stamford Bridge" . RTÉ Sport. 12 April 2006. Archived from the original on 15 December 2007 . Retrieved 1 January 2007 . ^ "Observer Stadium Story Denied" . chelseafc.com . Chelsea FC. 9 November 2008. Archived from the original on 23 April 2014 . Retrieved 23 April 2014 . ^ "Chelsea plan Bridge redevelopment" . BBC Sport . 20 January 2006. Archived from the original on 12 January 2016 . Retrieved 1 January 2007 . ^ "Chelsea FC lose fan vote on stadium" . BBC. 27 October 2011. Archived from the original on 19 March 2012 . Retrieved 11 March 2012 . ^ "Chelsea bid to buy Battersea power station in £1bn stadium plan" . The Guardian . UK. 4 May 2012. Archived from the original on 5 September 2014 . Retrieved 6 May 2012 . ^ "Chelsea's Battersea hopes end as Malaysian consortium completes deal" . The Guardian . UK. 5 July 2012. Archived from the original on 2 March 2014 . Retrieved 10 November 2012 . ^ "Stamford Bridge: 'Slinky' or Bird's Nest? Chelsea unveil new £500m stadium" . The Independent . UK. 3 December 2015. Archived from the original on 2 December 2015 . Retrieved 3 December 2015 . ^ " 'Chelsea's new £500m stadium will be one of world's best arenas' " . London Evening Standard . 12 January 2017. Archived from the original on 3 July 2018 . Retrieved 4 April 2018 . ^ "Stadium plans on hold" . chelseafc.com . Chelsea FC. Archived from the original on 16 July 2018 . Retrieved 16 July 2018 . ^ Victor, Tom (22 July 2022). "Chelsea owner Boehly's grand plan to rebuild Stamford Bridge one stand at a time" . Mirror . Archived from the original on 4 August 2022 . Retrieved 4 August 2022 .

______________________________________________________________________

## Identity

Identity [ edit ] Crest [ edit ] Chelsea has had four main crests , which all underwent minor variations. The first, adopted when the club was founded, was the image of a Chelsea Pensioner , the army veterans who reside at the nearby Royal Hospital Chelsea . This contributed to the club's original "pensioner" nickname, and remained for the next half-century, though it never appeared on the shirts. When Ted Drake became Chelsea manager in 1952, he began to modernise the club. Believing the Chelsea pensioner crest to be old-fashioned, he insisted that it be replaced. A stop-gap badge which comprised the initials C.F.C. was adopted for a year. In 1953, the club crest was changed to an upright blue lion looking backwards and holding a staff . It was based on elements in the coat of arms of the Metropolitan Borough of Chelsea with the "lion rampant regardant" taken from the arms of then club president Viscount Chelsea and the staff from the Abbots of Westminster , former Lords of the Manor of Chelsea. It featured three red roses, to represent England, and two footballs. This was the first Chelsea crest to appear on the shirts, in the early 1960s. In 1975, a heraldic badge was granted by the College of Arms to the English Football League for use by Chelsea. The badge took the form of the familiar lion and staff encircled by a blue ring but without lettering and without the red roses and red footballs ( blazoned as " A lion rampant reguardant azure supporting with the forepaws a crozier or all within an annulet azure "). In 1986, with Ken Bates owner of the club, Chelsea's crest was changed again as part of another attempt to modernise and because the old rampant lion badge could not be trademarked. The new badge featured a more naturalistic non-heraldic lion, in white and not blue, standing over the C.F.C. initials. This lasted for the next 19 years, with some modifications such as the use of different colours, including red from 1987 to 1995, and yellow from 1995 until 1999, before the white returned. With the new ownership of Roman Abramovich , and the club's centenary approaching, combined with demands from fans for the popular 1950s badge to be restored, it was decided that the crest should be changed again in 2005. The new crest was officially adopted for the start of the 2005–06 season and marked a return to the older design, used from 1953 to 1986, featuring a blue heraldic lion holding a staff. For the centenary season this was accompanied by the words '100 Years' and 'Centenary 2005–2006' on the top and bottom of the crest respectively. Colours [ edit ] Chelsea's first home colours (1905 – c. 1912 ) Wikimedia Commons has media related to Chelsea F.C. kits . Chelsea have always worn blue shirts, although they originally used the paler eton blue , which was taken from the racing colours of then club president, Earl Cadogan , and was worn with white shorts and dark blue or black socks. The light blue shirts were replaced by a royal blue version in around 1912. In the 1960s Chelsea manager Tommy Docherty changed the kit again, switching to blue shorts (which have remained ever since) and white socks, believing it made the club's colours more modern and distinctive, since no other major side used that combination; this kit was first worn during the 1964–65 season. Since then Chelsea have always worn white socks with their home kit apart from a short spell from 1985 to 1992, when blue socks were reintroduced. Chelsea's away colours are usually all yellow or all white with blue trim. More recently, the club have had a number of black or dark blue away kits which alternate every year. As with most teams, they have had some more unusual ones. At Docherty's behest, in the 1966 FA Cup semi-final they wore blue and black stripes, based on Inter Milan 's kit. In the mid-1970s, the away strip was a red, white and green kit inspired by the Hungarian national side of the 1950s. Other away kits include an all jade strip worn from 1986 to 1989, red and white diamonds from 1990 to 1992, graphite and tangerine from 1994 to 1996, and luminous yellow from 2007 to 2008. The graphite and tangerine strip has appeared in lists of the worst football kits ever. Songs and fan chants [ edit ] The song " Blue is the Colour " was released as a single in the build-up to the 1972 League Cup final , with all members of Chelsea's first team squad singing; it reached number five in the UK Singles Chart . The song has since been adopted by a number of other sports teams around the world, including the Vancouver Whitecaps (as "White is the Colour") and the Saskatchewan Roughriders (as "Green is the Colour"). Chelsea released the song " No One Can Stop Us Now " in 1994 for reaching the 1994 FA Cup final . It reached number 23 in the UK Singles Chart. In the build-up to the 1997 FA Cup final , the song " Blue Day ", performed by Suggs and members of the Chelsea squad, reached number 22 in the UK chart. In 2000, Chelsea released the song " Blue Tomorrow ". It reached number 22 in the UK Singles Chart. At matches, Chelsea fans sing chants such as " Carefree " (to the tune of " Lord of the Dance ", whose lyrics were probably written by supporter Mick Greenaway), "Ten Men Went to Mow", "We All Follow the Chelsea" (to the tune of " Land of Hope and Glory "), "Zigga Zagga", and the celebratory "Celery". The latter is often accompanied by fans throwing celery at each other, although the vegetable was banned inside Stamford Bridge after an incident involving midfielder Cesc Fàbregas at the 2007 League Cup final . Popular fan chants include, "Super Chelsea", "Super Frank" (dedicated to all-time leading goal scorer Frank Lampard ), "We love you Chelsea" and "Come on Chelsea". There are situation-specific or team-specific chants meant to rile up opposition teams, managers or players. ^ a b Glanvill, Rick (2006). Chelsea FC: The Official Biography . p. 42. ^ "Chelsea Metropolitan Borough Council" . Civic Heraldry of England and Wales . Archived from the original on 4 August 2017 . Retrieved 21 January 2007 . ^ Phillips, David Llewelyn (Spring 2015). "Badges and 'Crests': The Twentieth-Century Relationship Between Football and Heraldry" (PDF) . The Coat of Arms . XI Part I (229): 40– 42. Archived (PDF) from the original on 22 January 2021 . Retrieved 31 January 2022 . ^ "1980s Summary" . Chelsea FC. Archived from the original on 24 September 2015 . Retrieved 3 December 2015 . ^ Moor, Dave. "Historical Kits – Chelsea" . Historical Kits. Archived from the original on 2 August 2017 . Retrieved 28 September 2011 . ^ "Chelsea centenary crest unveiled" . BBC Sport . 12 November 2004. Archived from the original on 12 January 2016 . Retrieved 2 January 2007 . ^ "Chelsea" . Historical Football Kits . Archived from the original on 2 August 2017 . Retrieved 30 October 2020 . ^ "Chelsea – Historical Football Kits" . Historical Kits . Archived from the original on 2 August 2017 . Retrieved 26 June 2012 . ^ Glanvill, Rick (2006). Chelsea Football Club: The Official History in Pictures . Headline. ISBN 978-0-7553-1467-6 . p. 212 ^ Mears, Brian (2002). Chelsea: Football Under the Blue Flag . Mainstream Sport. p. 42. ISBN 978-1-84018-658-1 . ^ a b "Chelsea Change Kits" . Historical Kits . Archived from the original on 7 February 2016 . Retrieved 7 December 2015 . ^ Mears, Brian (2002). Chelsea: Football Under the Blue Flag . p. 58. ^ Batty, Clive (2007). Kings of the King's Road: The Great Chelsea Team of the 60s & 70s . Vision Sports Publishing. p. 244. ISBN 978-1-905326-22-8 . ^ "Eyes wide shut" . The Observer . 12 August 2007. Archived from the original on 29 December 2015 . Retrieved 7 December 2015 . ^ "Blue Is The Colour" . Official Charts Company . Archived from the original on 19 May 2015 . Retrieved 21 January 2007 . ^ "Caps' 'Proclaim' season opener" . Vancouver Courier . Archived from the original on 3 January 2008 . Retrieved 21 January 2007 . ^ Hunt, Stephen (26 November 2009). "Riders fans enjoy musical edge" . Calgary Herald . Archived from the original on 5 May 2014 . Retrieved 5 May 2014 . ^ a b Roberts, David (2005). Guinness World Records: British Hit Singles and Albums (18th ed.). Guinness World Records Limited . p. 102. ISBN 1-904994-00-8 . ^ "Blue Day" . Official Charts Company . Archived from the original on 13 April 2016 . Retrieved 11 September 2016 . ^ Glanvill, Rick (2006). Chelsea FC: The Official Biography . p. 150. ^ " "Carefree" audio sample" . Fanchants.com. Archived from the original on 10 July 2011 . Retrieved 3 September 2011 . ^ Murray, Scott (17 April 2002). "Fans sent spinning after tossing salad" . The Guardian . Archived from the original on 5 June 2002 . Retrieved 1 January 2007 . ^ "Songs" . The Shed . 11 October 2021. Archived from the original on 4 July 2022 . Retrieved 1 June 2022 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Crest

Crest [ edit ] Chelsea has had four main crests , which all underwent minor variations. The first, adopted when the club was founded, was the image of a Chelsea Pensioner , the army veterans who reside at the nearby Royal Hospital Chelsea . This contributed to the club's original "pensioner" nickname, and remained for the next half-century, though it never appeared on the shirts. When Ted Drake became Chelsea manager in 1952, he began to modernise the club. Believing the Chelsea pensioner crest to be old-fashioned, he insisted that it be replaced. A stop-gap badge which comprised the initials C.F.C. was adopted for a year. In 1953, the club crest was changed to an upright blue lion looking backwards and holding a staff . It was based on elements in the coat of arms of the Metropolitan Borough of Chelsea with the "lion rampant regardant" taken from the arms of then club president Viscount Chelsea and the staff from the Abbots of Westminster , former Lords of the Manor of Chelsea. It featured three red roses, to represent England, and two footballs. This was the first Chelsea crest to appear on the shirts, in the early 1960s. In 1975, a heraldic badge was granted by the College of Arms to the English Football League for use by Chelsea. The badge took the form of the familiar lion and staff encircled by a blue ring but without lettering and without the red roses and red footballs ( blazoned as " A lion rampant reguardant azure supporting with the forepaws a crozier or all within an annulet azure "). In 1986, with Ken Bates owner of the club, Chelsea's crest was changed again as part of another attempt to modernise and because the old rampant lion badge could not be trademarked. The new badge featured a more naturalistic non-heraldic lion, in white and not blue, standing over the C.F.C. initials. This lasted for the next 19 years, with some modifications such as the use of different colours, including red from 1987 to 1995, and yellow from 1995 until 1999, before the white returned. With the new ownership of Roman Abramovich , and the club's centenary approaching, combined with demands from fans for the popular 1950s badge to be restored, it was decided that the crest should be changed again in 2005. The new crest was officially adopted for the start of the 2005–06 season and marked a return to the older design, used from 1953 to 1986, featuring a blue heraldic lion holding a staff. For the centenary season this was accompanied by the words '100 Years' and 'Centenary 2005–2006' on the top and bottom of the crest respectively. ^ a b Glanvill, Rick (2006). Chelsea FC: The Official Biography . p. 42. ^ "Chelsea Metropolitan Borough Council" . Civic Heraldry of England and Wales . Archived from the original on 4 August 2017 . Retrieved 21 January 2007 . ^ Phillips, David Llewelyn (Spring 2015). "Badges and 'Crests': The Twentieth-Century Relationship Between Football and Heraldry" (PDF) . The Coat of Arms . XI Part I (229): 40– 42. Archived (PDF) from the original on 22 January 2021 . Retrieved 31 January 2022 . ^ "1980s Summary" . Chelsea FC. Archived from the original on 24 September 2015 . Retrieved 3 December 2015 . ^ Moor, Dave. "Historical Kits – Chelsea" . Historical Kits. Archived from the original on 2 August 2017 . Retrieved 28 September 2011 . ^ "Chelsea centenary crest unveiled" . BBC Sport . 12 November 2004. Archived from the original on 12 January 2016 . Retrieved 2 January 2007 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Colours

Colours [ edit ] Chelsea's first home colours (1905 – c. 1912 ) Wikimedia Commons has media related to Chelsea F.C. kits . Chelsea have always worn blue shirts, although they originally used the paler eton blue , which was taken from the racing colours of then club president, Earl Cadogan , and was worn with white shorts and dark blue or black socks. The light blue shirts were replaced by a royal blue version in around 1912. In the 1960s Chelsea manager Tommy Docherty changed the kit again, switching to blue shorts (which have remained ever since) and white socks, believing it made the club's colours more modern and distinctive, since no other major side used that combination; this kit was first worn during the 1964–65 season. Since then Chelsea have always worn white socks with their home kit apart from a short spell from 1985 to 1992, when blue socks were reintroduced. Chelsea's away colours are usually all yellow or all white with blue trim. More recently, the club have had a number of black or dark blue away kits which alternate every year. As with most teams, they have had some more unusual ones. At Docherty's behest, in the 1966 FA Cup semi-final they wore blue and black stripes, based on Inter Milan 's kit. In the mid-1970s, the away strip was a red, white and green kit inspired by the Hungarian national side of the 1950s. Other away kits include an all jade strip worn from 1986 to 1989, red and white diamonds from 1990 to 1992, graphite and tangerine from 1994 to 1996, and luminous yellow from 2007 to 2008. The graphite and tangerine strip has appeared in lists of the worst football kits ever. ^ "Chelsea" . Historical Football Kits . Archived from the original on 2 August 2017 . Retrieved 30 October 2020 . ^ "Chelsea – Historical Football Kits" . Historical Kits . Archived from the original on 2 August 2017 . Retrieved 26 June 2012 . ^ Glanvill, Rick (2006). Chelsea Football Club: The Official History in Pictures . Headline. ISBN 978-0-7553-1467-6 . p. 212 ^ Mears, Brian (2002). Chelsea: Football Under the Blue Flag . Mainstream Sport. p. 42. ISBN 978-1-84018-658-1 . ^ a b "Chelsea Change Kits" . Historical Kits . Archived from the original on 7 February 2016 . Retrieved 7 December 2015 . ^ Mears, Brian (2002). Chelsea: Football Under the Blue Flag . p. 58. ^ Batty, Clive (2007). Kings of the King's Road: The Great Chelsea Team of the 60s & 70s . Vision Sports Publishing. p. 244. ISBN 978-1-905326-22-8 . ^ "Eyes wide shut" . The Observer . 12 August 2007. Archived from the original on 29 December 2015 . Retrieved 7 December 2015 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Songs and fan chants

Songs and fan chants [ edit ] The song " Blue is the Colour " was released as a single in the build-up to the 1972 League Cup final , with all members of Chelsea's first team squad singing; it reached number five in the UK Singles Chart . The song has since been adopted by a number of other sports teams around the world, including the Vancouver Whitecaps (as "White is the Colour") and the Saskatchewan Roughriders (as "Green is the Colour"). Chelsea released the song " No One Can Stop Us Now " in 1994 for reaching the 1994 FA Cup final . It reached number 23 in the UK Singles Chart. In the build-up to the 1997 FA Cup final , the song " Blue Day ", performed by Suggs and members of the Chelsea squad, reached number 22 in the UK chart. In 2000, Chelsea released the song " Blue Tomorrow ". It reached number 22 in the UK Singles Chart. At matches, Chelsea fans sing chants such as " Carefree " (to the tune of " Lord of the Dance ", whose lyrics were probably written by supporter Mick Greenaway), "Ten Men Went to Mow", "We All Follow the Chelsea" (to the tune of " Land of Hope and Glory "), "Zigga Zagga", and the celebratory "Celery". The latter is often accompanied by fans throwing celery at each other, although the vegetable was banned inside Stamford Bridge after an incident involving midfielder Cesc Fàbregas at the 2007 League Cup final . Popular fan chants include, "Super Chelsea", "Super Frank" (dedicated to all-time leading goal scorer Frank Lampard ), "We love you Chelsea" and "Come on Chelsea". There are situation-specific or team-specific chants meant to rile up opposition teams, managers or players. ^ "Blue Is The Colour" . Official Charts Company . Archived from the original on 19 May 2015 . Retrieved 21 January 2007 . ^ "Caps' 'Proclaim' season opener" . Vancouver Courier . Archived from the original on 3 January 2008 . Retrieved 21 January 2007 . ^ Hunt, Stephen (26 November 2009). "Riders fans enjoy musical edge" . Calgary Herald . Archived from the original on 5 May 2014 . Retrieved 5 May 2014 . ^ a b Roberts, David (2005). Guinness World Records: British Hit Singles and Albums (18th ed.). Guinness World Records Limited . p. 102. ISBN 1-904994-00-8 . ^ "Blue Day" . Official Charts Company . Archived from the original on 13 April 2016 . Retrieved 11 September 2016 . ^ Glanvill, Rick (2006). Chelsea FC: The Official Biography . p. 150. ^ " "Carefree" audio sample" . Fanchants.com. Archived from the original on 10 July 2011 . Retrieved 3 September 2011 . ^ Murray, Scott (17 April 2002). "Fans sent spinning after tossing salad" . The Guardian . Archived from the original on 5 June 2002 . Retrieved 1 January 2007 . ^ "Songs" . The Shed . 11 October 2021. Archived from the original on 4 July 2022 . Retrieved 1 June 2022 .

______________________________________________________________________

## Support

Support [ edit ] Chelsea fans at a match against Tottenham Hotspur , on 11 March 2006 Chelsea is among the most widely supported football clubs in the world. It has the sixth-highest average attendance in the history of English football , and regularly attract over 40,000 fans to Stamford Bridge; they were the ninth best-supported Premier League team in the 2023–24 season, with an average gate of 39,700. Chelsea's traditional fanbase comes from all over the Greater London area, including working-class parts such as Hammersmith and Battersea , wealthier areas like Chelsea and Kensington , and from the home counties . There are numerous official supporters clubs in the United Kingdom and all over the world. Between 2007 and 2012, Chelsea were ranked fourth worldwide in annual replica kit sales, with an average of 910,000. As of 2023 [update] , Chelsea has 118.9 million followers on social media, the fourth highest among football clubs. During the 1970s and 1980s, Chelsea supporters were associated with football hooliganism . The club's " football firm ", originally known as the Chelsea Shed Boys, and subsequently as the Chelsea Headhunters , were nationally notorious for football violence, alongside hooligan firms from other clubs such as West Ham United 's Inter City Firm and Millwall 's Bushwackers , before, during and after matches. The increase of hooligan incidents in the 1980s led chairman Ken Bates to propose erecting an electric fence to deter them from invading the pitch, a proposal that the Greater London Council rejected. Since the 1990s, there has been a marked decline in crowd trouble at matches, as a result of stricter policing, CCTV in grounds and the advent of all-seater stadia . In 2007, the club launched the Back to the Shed campaign to improve the atmosphere at home matches, with notable success. According to Home Office statistics, 126 Chelsea fans were arrested for football-related offences during the 2009–10 season, the third highest in the division, and 27 banning orders were issued, the fifth-highest in the division. Rivalries [ edit ] Main articles: Arsenal F.C.–Chelsea F.C. rivalry , Chelsea F.C.–Liverpool F.C. rivalry , Chelsea F.C.–Tottenham Hotspur F.C. rivalry , West London derbies , and Chelsea F.C.–Leeds United F.C. rivalry Chelsea have long-standing rivalries with North London clubs Arsenal and Tottenham Hotspur . A strong rivalry with Leeds United dates back to several heated and controversial matches in the 1960s and 1970s, particularly the 1970 FA Cup final . More recently a rivalry with Liverpool has grown following repeated clashes in cup competitions. Fellow West London clubs Brentford , Fulham and Queens Park Rangers are considered rivals, but less so in recent times as matches have only taken place intermittently due to the teams often being in separate divisions. A 2004 survey by Planetfootball.com found that Chelsea fans consider their main rivalries to be with (in descending order): Arsenal, Tottenham Hotspur and Manchester United . In the same survey, fans of Arsenal, Fulham, Leeds United, QPR, Tottenham, and West Ham United named Chelsea as one of their three main rivals. A 2012 survey, conducted among 1,200 supporters of the top four league divisions across the country, found that many clubs' main rivals had changed since 2003 and reported that Chelsea fans consider Tottenham to be their main rivals, above Arsenal and Manchester United. Additionally, fans of Arsenal, Brentford, Fulham, Liverpool, Manchester United, QPR, Tottenham and West Ham identified Chelsea as one of their top three rivals. ^ Anderson, Jamie. "Chelsea are a more universally loved club! Blues chief lauds 400million fan base" . Daily Express . London. Archived from the original on 3 December 2014 . Retrieved 29 November 2014 . ^ "The world's most popular football club revealed: Man United, Liverpool F.C., Arsenal F.C., Barca, Real or Chelsea?" . talkSPORT . 13 October 2011. Archived from the original on 21 December 2014 . Retrieved 29 November 2014 . ^ "All Time League Attendance Records" . nufc.com. 22 September 2015. Archived from the original on 6 April 2016 . Retrieved 6 April 2016 . Pre-war figures come from unreliable sources. ^ "Premier League 2023/2024 - Attendance" . worldfootball.net . 13 June 2024 . Retrieved 14 June 2024 . ^ Premier League Handbook: Season 2024/25 (PDF) . 25 July 2024 . Retrieved 19 August 2024 . ^ "Supporters Clubs Map" . chelseafc.com . Archived from the original on 23 March 2014 . Retrieved 23 March 2014 . ^ "EXCLUSIVE: Manchester United and Real Madrid top global shirt sale charts" . Sporting Intelligence . 8 October 2012. Archived from the original on 10 August 2017 . Retrieved 8 October 2012 . ^ "The 20 most popular rich-list football teams on social media" . Business Insider . Archived from the original on 24 September 2020 . Retrieved 23 June 2019 . ^ "Making a new start" . BBC News . 2 May 2002. Archived from the original on 12 January 2016 . Retrieved 21 January 2007 . ^ "Bates: Chelsea's driving force" . BBC Sport . 2 July 2003. Archived from the original on 12 January 2016 . Retrieved 21 January 2007 . ^ "Soccer hooliganism: Made in England, but big abroad" . BBC News . 2 June 1998. Archived from the original on 12 January 2016 . Retrieved 1 January 2007 . ^ "Statistics on football-related arrests and banning orders" . Home Office. November 2010. Archived from the original on 17 March 2011 . Retrieved 14 May 2011 . ^ Glanvill, Rick (2006). Chelsea FC: The Official Biography . pp. 312– 318. ^ "A brief history of the Arsenal-Chelsea rivalry and why it matters" . The Guardian . 22 April 2015. Archived from the original on 1 October 2015 . Retrieved 7 December 2015 . ^ Glanvill, Rick (2006). Chelsea FC: The Official Biography . pp. 321– 325. ^ "Six very modern football rivalries" . TalkSport . 19 May 2011. Archived from the original on 25 May 2013 . Retrieved 23 May 2011 . ^ "A brief guide to Chelsea's rivalry with Liverpool" . The Guardian . 29 October 2015. Archived from the original on 30 November 2015 . Retrieved 4 December 2015 . ^ Glanvill, Rick (2006). Chelsea FC: The Official Biography . p. 311. ^ "Football Rivalries: The Complete Results" . Planetfootball.com. Archived from the original on 17 June 2017 . Retrieved 2 January 2007 . ^ "Football Rivalries: The Survey" . The Daisy Cutter. 14 September 2012. Archived from the original on 18 June 2013 . Retrieved 22 May 2018 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Rivalries

Rivalries [ edit ] Main articles: Arsenal F.C.–Chelsea F.C. rivalry , Chelsea F.C.–Liverpool F.C. rivalry , Chelsea F.C.–Tottenham Hotspur F.C. rivalry , West London derbies , and Chelsea F.C.–Leeds United F.C. rivalry Chelsea have long-standing rivalries with North London clubs Arsenal and Tottenham Hotspur . A strong rivalry with Leeds United dates back to several heated and controversial matches in the 1960s and 1970s, particularly the 1970 FA Cup final . More recently a rivalry with Liverpool has grown following repeated clashes in cup competitions. Fellow West London clubs Brentford , Fulham and Queens Park Rangers are considered rivals, but less so in recent times as matches have only taken place intermittently due to the teams often being in separate divisions. A 2004 survey by Planetfootball.com found that Chelsea fans consider their main rivalries to be with (in descending order): Arsenal, Tottenham Hotspur and Manchester United . In the same survey, fans of Arsenal, Fulham, Leeds United, QPR, Tottenham, and West Ham United named Chelsea as one of their three main rivals. A 2012 survey, conducted among 1,200 supporters of the top four league divisions across the country, found that many clubs' main rivals had changed since 2003 and reported that Chelsea fans consider Tottenham to be their main rivals, above Arsenal and Manchester United. Additionally, fans of Arsenal, Brentford, Fulham, Liverpool, Manchester United, QPR, Tottenham and West Ham identified Chelsea as one of their top three rivals. ^ Glanvill, Rick (2006). Chelsea FC: The Official Biography . pp. 312– 318. ^ "A brief history of the Arsenal-Chelsea rivalry and why it matters" . The Guardian . 22 April 2015. Archived from the original on 1 October 2015 . Retrieved 7 December 2015 . ^ Glanvill, Rick (2006). Chelsea FC: The Official Biography . pp. 321– 325. ^ "Six very modern football rivalries" . TalkSport . 19 May 2011. Archived from the original on 25 May 2013 . Retrieved 23 May 2011 . ^ "A brief guide to Chelsea's rivalry with Liverpool" . The Guardian . 29 October 2015. Archived from the original on 30 November 2015 . Retrieved 4 December 2015 . ^ Glanvill, Rick (2006). Chelsea FC: The Official Biography . p. 311. ^ "Football Rivalries: The Complete Results" . Planetfootball.com. Archived from the original on 17 June 2017 . Retrieved 2 January 2007 . ^ "Football Rivalries: The Survey" . The Daisy Cutter. 14 September 2012. Archived from the original on 18 June 2013 . Retrieved 22 May 2018 .

______________________________________________________________________

## Records and statistics

Records and statistics [ edit ] Further information: List of Chelsea F.C. records and statistics Frank Lampard is Chelsea's all-time highest goalscorer. Chelsea's highest appearance-maker is ex-captain Ron Harris , who played in 795 competitive games for the club between 1961 and 1980. Five other players made more than 500 appearances for the club: Peter Bonetti (729; 1959–79), John Terry (717; 1998–2017), Frank Lampard (648; 2001–2014), John Hollins (592; 1963–1975 and 1983–1984), and César Azpilicueta (508; 2012–2023). With 103 caps (101 while at the club) for England, Lampard is Chelsea's most capped international player. Every starting player in Chelsea's 57 games of the 2013–14 season was a full international – a new club record. Lampard is Chelsea's all-time top goalscorer, having scored 211 goals in 648 games (2001–2014); he passed Bobby Tambling 's longstanding record of 202 in May 2013. Eight other players have scored over 100 goals for Chelsea: George Hilsdon (1906–1912), George Mills (1929–1939), Roy Bentley (1948–1956), Jimmy Greaves (1957–1961), Peter Osgood (1964–1974 and 1978–1979), Kerry Dixon (1983–1992), Didier Drogba (2004–2012 and 2014–2015), and Eden Hazard (2012–2019). Greaves holds the club record for the most goals scored in one season (43 in 1960–61). While a Chelsea player, Greaves became the youngest ever player to score 100 goals in the English top-flight, at 20 years and 290 days. Chelsea's biggest winning scoreline in a competitive match is 13–0, achieved against Jeunesse Hautcharage in the Cup Winners' Cup in 1971. The club's biggest top-flight win was an 8–0 victory against Wigan Athletic in 2010, which was matched in 2012 against Aston Villa . Chelsea's biggest loss was an 8–1 reverse against Wolverhampton Wanderers in 1953. The club's 21–0 aggregate victory over Jeunesse Hautcharage in the UEFA Cup Winners' Cup in 1971 is a record in European competition. Officially, Chelsea's highest home attendance is 82,905 for a First Division match against Arsenal on 12 October 1935. However, an estimated crowd of over 100,000 attended a friendly match against Soviet team Dynamo Moscow on 13 November 1945. In January 2011 Chelsea broke the British transfer record to sign Fernando Torres for £50 million; the record stood until 2014 From 20 March 2004 to 26 October 2008, Chelsea went a record 86 consecutive league matches at home without defeat, beating the previous record of 63 matches unbeaten set by Liverpool between 1978 and 1980. Chelsea hold the English record for the fewest goals conceded during a league season (15), the highest number of clean sheets overall in a Premier League season (25) (both set during the 2004–05 season ), and the most consecutive clean sheets from the start of a league season (6, set during the 2005–06 season ). Chelsea is the only Premier League side to have won its opening nine league games of the season, doing so in 2005–06. From 2009 to 2013, Chelsea were unbeaten in a record 29 consecutive FA Cup matches (excluding penalty shoot-outs). Firsts [ edit ] On 25 August 1928, Chelsea, along with Arsenal, became the first club to play with shirt numbers, in their match against Swansea Town . They were the first English side to travel by aeroplane to a domestic away match, when they visited Newcastle United on 19 April 1957, and the first First Division side to play a match on a Sunday, when they faced Stoke City on 27 January 1974. On 26 December 1999, Chelsea became the first British side to field an entirely foreign starting line-up (no British or Irish players) in a Premier League match against Southampton . Chelsea is one of five clubs and the first English club to have won all three pre-1999 main European club competitions, the "European Treble" of the European Cup/UEFA Champions League, European/UEFA Cup Winners' Cup, and UEFA Cup/UEFA Europa League . They are also the first and only club to win all three pre-1999 main UEFA club competitions more than once each. Chelsea is also the only London club to have won the Champions League and the FIFA Club World Cup. In May 2007, Chelsea were the first team to win the FA Cup at the new Wembley Stadium , having been the last to win it at the old Wembley. They were the first English club to be ranked No. 1 under UEFA's five-year coefficient system in the 21st century. They were the first Premier League team, and the first team in the English top flight since 1962–63, to score at least 100 goals in a single season, reaching the milestone during the 2009–10 season. Chelsea is the only London club to have won the UEFA Champions League . Upon winning the 2012–13 UEFA Europa League , Chelsea became the first English club to win all four UEFA club trophies and the only club to hold the Champions League and the Europa League at the same time. Chelsea have broken the record for the highest transfer fee paid by a British club three times. Their £30.8 million purchase of Andriy Shevchenko from A.C. Milan in June 2006 was a British record until surpassed by the £32.5 million paid by Manchester City for Robinho in September 2008. The club's £50 million purchase of Fernando Torres from Liverpool in January 2011 held the record until Ángel Di María signed for Manchester United in August 2014 for £59.7 million. The club's £71 million purchase of Kepa Arrizabalaga in August 2018 remains a world record fee paid for a goalkeeper . On 12 February 2022, Chelsea became the first London club to win the FIFA Club World Cup . In the final it beat Palmeiras with Kai Havertz scoring a late penalty. Chelsea broke the spending record in the winter transfer window with a £289 million spending spree on eight new signings, with the £107 million signing of Enzo Fernandez breaking the British transfer record. ^ a b For the appearance and goalscoring records of all Chelsea players, see Glanvill, Rick (2006). Chelsea FC: The Official Biography . pp. 399– 410. ^ "Cesar Azpilicueta: Chelsea club captain departs after 11 years to join Atletico Madrid on free transfer" . Sky Sports . Archived from the original on 29 September 2023 . Retrieved 20 September 2023 . ^ "Pre-Match Briefing: Burnley v Chelsea – part one" . Chelsea FC. Archived from the original on 19 August 2014 . Retrieved 18 August 2014 . ^ "Chelsea's Frank Lampard given golden boot by Bobby Tambling" . BBC. 19 May 2013. Archived from the original on 12 August 2013 . Retrieved 7 September 2013 . ^ "Chelsea Legends" . Chelsea News. 17 February 2009. Archived from the original on 14 August 2014 . Retrieved 11 August 2014 . ^ "Jimmy Greaves" . chelseafc.com. Archived from the original on 12 August 2014 . Retrieved 11 August 2014 . ^ "Words on Winning: 21–0" . chelseafc.com . Chelsea FC. Archived from the original on 23 April 2014 . Retrieved 23 April 2014 . ^ "Chelsea v Wigan match report" . chelseafc.com . Chelsea FC. Archived from the original on 5 June 2014 . Retrieved 23 April 2014 . ^ "Chelsea FC" . UEFA . Union of European Football Associations. Archived from the original on 11 January 2012 . Retrieved 15 January 2012 . ^ Dutton, Paul. "Ask Statsman 37" . Chelsea FC. Archived from the original on 21 November 2013 . Retrieved 23 April 2014 . ^ "Cup Winners' Cup Trivia" . Rec.Sport.Soccer Statistics Foundation. Archived from the original on 2 January 2010 . Retrieved 21 January 2007 . ^ "Team History – 1940s" . chelseafc.com . Chelsea FC. Archived from the original on 13 July 2011 . Retrieved 23 April 2014 . ^ Viner, Brian (29 October 2005). "Brian Viner: Diamond days of side who brought touch of glamour to post-war Britain" . The Independent . Independent Print Limited. Archived from the original on 2 March 2014 . Retrieved 20 May 2012 . ^ "Chelsea 3–2 Birmingham" . BBC Sport . 12 August 2007. Archived from the original on 12 January 2016 . Retrieved 9 October 2007 . ^ "Chelsea 0–1 Liverpool" . BBC Sport . 26 October 2008. Archived from the original on 29 October 2008 . Retrieved 26 October 2008 . ^ "Mourinho proud of battling finish" . BBC Sport . 13 May 2005. Archived from the original on 28 July 2011 . Retrieved 29 August 2010 . ^ "Charlton 0–2 Chelsea" . BBC Sport . 17 September 2005. Archived from the original on 12 January 2016 . Retrieved 12 November 2007 . ^ Diamond, Harry (19 September 2019). "Six best ever starts to a Premier League season" . The Football Faithful. Archived from the original on 21 December 2019 . Retrieved 28 November 2019 . ^ "Premier League stats: Manchester United end Liverpool's winning run" . BBC. 21 October 2019. Archived from the original on 31 October 2019 . Retrieved 28 November 2019 . ^ "Chelsea 1-0 Man Utd" . BBC. 1 April 2013. Archived from the original on 15 November 2019 . Retrieved 15 November 2019 . ^ "Shirt Numbers" . England Football Online . Archived from the original on 30 July 2012 . Retrieved 1 October 2006 . ^ Glanvill, Rick (2006). Chelsea FC: The Official Biography . p. 96. ^ Bradley, Mark (27 December 1999). "Southampton 1 Chelsea 2" . Sporting Life . Archived from the original on 3 June 2012 . Retrieved 27 January 2007 . ^ "Stats: Mourinho takes place among coaching greats" . Union of European Football Associations. 25 May 2017 . Retrieved 2 September 2023 . ^ "Five interesting facts about Chelsea's Champions League triumph" . Chelsea FC. 31 May 2021 . Retrieved 11 June 2021 . ^ Mitchell, Kevin (20 May 2007). "Something old, new and Blue" . The Observer . Archived from the original on 19 August 2014 . Retrieved 14 July 2011 . ^ Kassies, Bert. "UEFA Team Ranking 2008" . UEFA European Cup Football: Results and Qualification . Archived from the original on 1 May 2008 . Retrieved 2 June 2008 . ^ Cite error: The named reference Wigan80 was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ "Chelsea win breaks London duck" . Union of European Football Associations . 20 May 2012. Archived from the original on 15 July 2014 . Retrieved 20 May 2012 . ^ "Chelsea etch new name on trophy" . Union of European Football Associations . 19 May 2012. Archived from the original on 15 July 2014 . Retrieved 20 May 2012 . ^ "Chelsea first team to hold Champions, Europa League titles" . Vanguard . 15 May 2013. Archived from the original on 31 December 2015 . Retrieved 20 May 2015 . ^ "Chelsea land Shevchenko with £30.8m record deal" . The Independent . 1 June 2006. Archived from the original on 15 November 2019 . Retrieved 15 November 2019 . ^ "Man City beat Chelsea to Robinho" . BBC Sport. 5 January 2012. Archived from the original on 2 July 2018 . Retrieved 15 November 2019 . ^ "Torres makes record move from Liverpool to Chelsea" . BBC Sport. 31 January 2011. Archived from the original on 3 September 2017 . Retrieved 12 March 2012 . ^ "Transfer news: Manchester United sign Angel di Maria from Real Madrid" . Sky Sports . Archived from the original on 6 November 2014 . Retrieved 6 November 2014 . ^ "Kepa Arrizabalaga: Chelsea sign Athletic Bilbao goalkeeper in world record deal" . BBC. 9 August 2018. Archived from the original on 22 April 2020 . Retrieved 15 November 2019 . ^ " 'Childhood dream!' - Havertz penalty wins Club World Cup final for Blues to continue rich trophy streak" . Goal . Archived from the original on 12 February 2022 . Retrieved 12 February 2022 . ^ "Chelsea complete record £107m Fernandez deal" . BBC Sport. Archived from the original on 31 May 2023 . Retrieved 1 June 2023 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Firsts

Firsts [ edit ] On 25 August 1928, Chelsea, along with Arsenal, became the first club to play with shirt numbers, in their match against Swansea Town . They were the first English side to travel by aeroplane to a domestic away match, when they visited Newcastle United on 19 April 1957, and the first First Division side to play a match on a Sunday, when they faced Stoke City on 27 January 1974. On 26 December 1999, Chelsea became the first British side to field an entirely foreign starting line-up (no British or Irish players) in a Premier League match against Southampton . Chelsea is one of five clubs and the first English club to have won all three pre-1999 main European club competitions, the "European Treble" of the European Cup/UEFA Champions League, European/UEFA Cup Winners' Cup, and UEFA Cup/UEFA Europa League . They are also the first and only club to win all three pre-1999 main UEFA club competitions more than once each. Chelsea is also the only London club to have won the Champions League and the FIFA Club World Cup. In May 2007, Chelsea were the first team to win the FA Cup at the new Wembley Stadium , having been the last to win it at the old Wembley. They were the first English club to be ranked No. 1 under UEFA's five-year coefficient system in the 21st century. They were the first Premier League team, and the first team in the English top flight since 1962–63, to score at least 100 goals in a single season, reaching the milestone during the 2009–10 season. Chelsea is the only London club to have won the UEFA Champions League . Upon winning the 2012–13 UEFA Europa League , Chelsea became the first English club to win all four UEFA club trophies and the only club to hold the Champions League and the Europa League at the same time. Chelsea have broken the record for the highest transfer fee paid by a British club three times. Their £30.8 million purchase of Andriy Shevchenko from A.C. Milan in June 2006 was a British record until surpassed by the £32.5 million paid by Manchester City for Robinho in September 2008. The club's £50 million purchase of Fernando Torres from Liverpool in January 2011 held the record until Ángel Di María signed for Manchester United in August 2014 for £59.7 million. The club's £71 million purchase of Kepa Arrizabalaga in August 2018 remains a world record fee paid for a goalkeeper . On 12 February 2022, Chelsea became the first London club to win the FIFA Club World Cup . In the final it beat Palmeiras with Kai Havertz scoring a late penalty. Chelsea broke the spending record in the winter transfer window with a £289 million spending spree on eight new signings, with the £107 million signing of Enzo Fernandez breaking the British transfer record. ^ "Shirt Numbers" . England Football Online . Archived from the original on 30 July 2012 . Retrieved 1 October 2006 . ^ Glanvill, Rick (2006). Chelsea FC: The Official Biography . p. 96. ^ Bradley, Mark (27 December 1999). "Southampton 1 Chelsea 2" . Sporting Life . Archived from the original on 3 June 2012 . Retrieved 27 January 2007 . ^ "Stats: Mourinho takes place among coaching greats" . Union of European Football Associations. 25 May 2017 . Retrieved 2 September 2023 . ^ "Five interesting facts about Chelsea's Champions League triumph" . Chelsea FC. 31 May 2021 . Retrieved 11 June 2021 . ^ Mitchell, Kevin (20 May 2007). "Something old, new and Blue" . The Observer . Archived from the original on 19 August 2014 . Retrieved 14 July 2011 . ^ Kassies, Bert. "UEFA Team Ranking 2008" . UEFA European Cup Football: Results and Qualification . Archived from the original on 1 May 2008 . Retrieved 2 June 2008 . ^ Cite error: The named reference Wigan80 was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ "Chelsea win breaks London duck" . Union of European Football Associations . 20 May 2012. Archived from the original on 15 July 2014 . Retrieved 20 May 2012 . ^ "Chelsea etch new name on trophy" . Union of European Football Associations . 19 May 2012. Archived from the original on 15 July 2014 . Retrieved 20 May 2012 . ^ "Chelsea first team to hold Champions, Europa League titles" . Vanguard . 15 May 2013. Archived from the original on 31 December 2015 . Retrieved 20 May 2015 . ^ "Chelsea land Shevchenko with £30.8m record deal" . The Independent . 1 June 2006. Archived from the original on 15 November 2019 . Retrieved 15 November 2019 . ^ "Man City beat Chelsea to Robinho" . BBC Sport. 5 January 2012. Archived from the original on 2 July 2018 . Retrieved 15 November 2019 . ^ "Torres makes record move from Liverpool to Chelsea" . BBC Sport. 31 January 2011. Archived from the original on 3 September 2017 . Retrieved 12 March 2012 . ^ "Transfer news: Manchester United sign Angel di Maria from Real Madrid" . Sky Sports . Archived from the original on 6 November 2014 . Retrieved 6 November 2014 . ^ "Kepa Arrizabalaga: Chelsea sign Athletic Bilbao goalkeeper in world record deal" . BBC. 9 August 2018. Archived from the original on 22 April 2020 . Retrieved 15 November 2019 . ^ " 'Childhood dream!' - Havertz penalty wins Club World Cup final for Blues to continue rich trophy streak" . Goal . Archived from the original on 12 February 2022 . Retrieved 12 February 2022 . ^ "Chelsea complete record £107m Fernandez deal" . BBC Sport. Archived from the original on 31 May 2023 . Retrieved 1 June 2023 .

______________________________________________________________________

## Ownership and finances

Ownership and finances [ edit ] Todd Boehly , chairman and one of the co-owners of Chelsea Chelsea Football Club was founded by Gus Mears in 1905. After his death in 1912, his descendants continued to own the club until 1982, when Ken Bates bought the club from Mears' great-nephew Brian Mears for £1. Bates bought a controlling stake in the club and floated Chelsea on the AIM stock exchange in March 1996. In the mid-1990s Chelsea fan and businessman Matthew Harding became a director, and loaned the club £26 million to build the new North Stand and invest in new players. In July 2003, Roman Abramovich purchased just over 50% of Chelsea Village plc's share capital, including Bates' 29.5% stake, for £30 million and over the following weeks bought out most of the remaining 12,000 shareholders at 35 pence per share, completing a £140 million takeover. Other shareholders at the time of the takeover included the Matthew Harding estate (21%), BSkyB (9.9%) and various anonymous offshore trusts. At the time of the Abramovich takeover, the club had debts of around £100 million, which included a 10-year £75 million Eurobond taken out in 1997 by the Bates regime to buy the freehold of Stamford Bridge and finance the redevelopment of the stadium. The 9% interest on the loan cost the club around £7 million a year and according to Bruce Buck , Chelsea were struggling to pay an instalment due in July 2003. Abramovich paid off some of that debt immediately, but the outstanding £36 million on the Eurobond was not fully repaid until 2008. Since then, the club had no external debt. Abramovich changed the ownership name to Chelsea FC plc, whose ultimate parent company was Fordstam Limited, which was controlled by him. Chelsea were additionally funded by Abramovich via interest free soft loans channelled through his holding company Fordstam Limited. The loans stood at £709 million in December 2009, when they were all converted to equity by Abramovich, leaving the club themselves debt free, although the debt remained with Fordstam. Chelsea did not turn a profit in the first nine years of Abramovich's ownership, and made record losses of £140m in June 2005. In November 2012, Chelsea announced a profit of £1.4 million for the year ending 30 June 2012, the first time the club had made a profit under Abramovich's ownership. This was followed by a loss in 2013 and then their highest ever profit of £18.4 million for the year to June 2014. In 2018 Chelsea announced a record after-tax profit of £62 million. Chelsea has been described as a global brand; a 2012 report by Brand Finance ranked Chelsea fifth among football brands and valued the club's brand value at US$398 million – an increase of 27% from the previous year, valuing it at US$10 million more than the sixth best brand, London rivals Arsenal – and gave the brand a strength rating of AA (very strong). In 2016, Forbes magazine ranked Chelsea the seventh most valuable football club in the world, at £1.15 billion ($1.66 billion). As of 2016 [update] , Chelsea was ranked eighth in the Deloitte Football Money League with an annual commercial revenue of £322.59 million. As of May 2022, Chelsea was ranked the eighth-most valuable club in the world according to Forbes , and eighth according to Deloitte, with an annual commercial revenue of €493.1 million. On 26 February 2022, during the Russo-Ukrainian War , Abramovich handed over "stewardship and care" of Chelsea FC to the Chelsea Charitable Foundation. Abramovich released an official statement on 2 March 2022 confirming that he was selling the club due to the ongoing situation in Ukraine. Although the UK government froze Abramovich's assets in United Kingdom on 10 March due to his "close ties with Kremlin", it was made clear that the Chelsea club would be allowed to operate in terms of activities which are football-related. On 12 March 2022, the Premier League disqualified Abramovich as a director of Chelsea Football Club. On 19 March 2022, there were five confirmed bids to acquire Chelsea FC: submitted to Raine Capital which was handling the sale of the club. Some of these were a consortium led by ex-Liverpool chairman Sir Martin Broughton , a group of investors led by the Ricketts family (among them Joe and Pete Ricketts ), Swiss and American businessmen Hansjörg Wyss and Todd Boehly , Aethel Partners headed by Portuguese Ricardo Santos Silva and British businessman Nick Candy , supported by former Chelsea striker Gianluca Vialli . On 7 May, the club finally confirmed that "terms have been agreed" for a new ownership group led by Todd Boehly and Clearlake Capital. On 30 May, it was confirmed that the Boehly consortium had completed the purchase of the club. The consortium includes Wyss and Mark Walter . Walter and Boehly are also owners of the Los Angeles Dodgers , the Los Angeles Lakers , and the Los Angeles Sparks . The consortium was later known as BlueCo . The transaction had received all necessary approvals from the governments of the United Kingdom and, the Premier League, and other authorities. As of 2024 [update] Chelsea is the ninth-most-valuable football club in the world , worth $3.13 billion, and earning $620m in revenue. As of 2023 [update] it was the ninth-highest-earning football club in the world. Sponsorship [ edit ] Chelsea's kit has been manufactured by Nike since July 2017. Previously, the kit was manufactured by Adidas , which was originally contracted to supply the club's kit from 2006 to 2018. The partnership was extended in October 2010 in a deal worth £160 million over eight years. This deal was again extended in June 2013 in a deal worth £300 million over another 10 years. In May 2016, Adidas announced that by mutual agreement, the kit sponsorship would end six years early on 30 June 2017. Chelsea had to pay £40m in compensation to Adidas. In October 2016, Nike was announced as the new kit sponsor, in a deal worth £900m over 15 years, until 2032. Previously, the kit was manufactured by Umbro (1975–81), Le Coq Sportif (1981–86), The Chelsea Collection (1986–87), Umbro (1987–2006), and Adidas (2006–2017). Chelsea's first shirt sponsor was Gulf Air , agreed during the 1983–84 season. The club was then sponsored by Grange Farms, Bai Lin Tea and Simod before a long-term deal was signed with Commodore International in 1989; Amiga , an offshoot of Commodore, appeared on the shirts. Chelsea was subsequently sponsored by Coors beer (1994–97), Autoglass (1997–2001), Emirates (2001–05), Samsung Mobile (2005–08), Samsung (2008–15) and Yokohama Tyres (2015–20). From July 2020, Chelsea's sponsor was Three ; however, it temporarily suspended its sponsorship in March 2022 in response to sanctions leveled by the UK government against Abramovich . It restored its sponsorship after the change of ownership of the club. Following the introduction of sleeve sponsors in the Premier League, Chelsea had Alliance Tyres as its first sleeve sponsor in the 2017–18 season , followed by Hyundai Motor Company in 2018–19 season . In 2022–23 season , Amber Group became the new sleeve sponsor, with the flagship digital asset platform WhaleFin appearing on the sleeves of both men's and women's teams. The club has a variety of other sponsors and official partners, which include Cadbury , EA Sports , FICO , Hilton Worldwide , 3 (company) , Levy Restaurants , MSC Cruises , Oman Air , Parimatch , Rexona , Singha , The St. James , Trivago and BingX. Kit suppliers and shirt sponsors [ edit ] Period Kit manufacturer Shirt sponsor (chest) Shirt sponsor (sleeve) 1975–1981 Umbro – – 1981–1983 Le Coq Sportif 1983–1984 Gulf Air 1984–1986 – 1986–1987 The Chelsea Collection Bai Lin Tea 1987 Simod 1987–1993 Umbro Commodore 1993–1994 Amiga 1994–1997 Coors 1997–2001 Autoglass 2001–2005 Emirates 2005–2006 Samsung 2006–2015 Adidas 2015–2017 Yokohama Tyres 2017–2018 Nike Alliance Tire Company 2018–2020 Hyundai 2020–2022 Three 2022–2023 WhaleFin 2023–2024 Infinite Athlete BingX 2024–2025 – Fever 2025 DAMAC Live Nation 2025– – – ^ Cite error: The named reference Football Economy was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ Cite error: The named reference The battle of Stamford Bridge was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ "Bates sells off Chelsea to a Russian billionaire" . The Daily Telegraph . 7 February 2003. Archived from the original on 30 June 2019 . Retrieved 27 June 2012 . ^ "Roman Abramovich clears Chelsea debt" . The Daily Telegraph . 22 December 2007. Archived from the original on 30 June 2019 . Retrieved 30 June 2019 . ^ "Chelsea tycoon to clear club's debt" . BBC. 28 July 2003. Archived from the original on 12 January 2016 . Retrieved 26 June 2012 . ^ "Chelsea and United debts at record £1.5bn" . The Guardian . 20 May 2008. Archived from the original on 5 September 2014 . Retrieved 27 June 2012 . ^ "Club Information" . Chelsea FC. Archived from the original on 2 July 2012 . Retrieved 26 June 2012 . ^ "Roman Abramovich turns £340m of debt into equity as Chelsea loss falls" . The Guardian . 30 December 2009. Archived from the original on 8 September 2013 . Retrieved 27 June 2012 . ^ "Statement on Club Finance" . Chelsea F.C. Archived from the original on 23 April 2014 . Retrieved 23 April 2014 . ^ "Roman Abramovich still owed £726m under complex Chelsea structure" . The Guardian . 19 May 2010. Archived from the original on 14 September 2013 . Retrieved 27 June 2012 . ^ a b Cite error: The named reference first profit was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ Cite error: The named reference Chelsea FC announces annual profit was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ Cite error: The named reference bbc.com was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ Cite error: The named reference Chelseafc.com was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ "Top 20 most Valuable Football Club Brands" (PDF) . Brand Finance. May 2012. Archived (PDF) from the original on 11 May 2012 . Retrieved 26 June 2012 . ^ "Top 30 Football Club Brands" (PDF) . Brand Finance. September 2011. Archived (PDF) from the original on 12 June 2012 . Retrieved 4 October 2011 . ^ Ozanian, Mike (6 June 2017). "The World's Most Valuable Soccer Teams 2017" . Forbes . Archived from the original on 3 October 2017 . Retrieved 11 November 2017 . ^ "Chelsea – Deloitte Football Money League" . Deloitte . Archived from the original on 19 January 2017 . Retrieved 21 January 2016 . ^ "The Business Of Soccer" . Forbes . Archived from the original on 20 August 2020 . Retrieved 29 May 2022 . ^ "Deloitte Football Money League 2022" . Deloitte United Kingdom . Archived from the original on 15 October 2014 . Retrieved 29 May 2022 . ^ "Abramovich hands 'stewardship and care of Chelsea' to charitable foundation" . The Guardian . 26 February 2022. Archived from the original on 26 February 2022 . Retrieved 26 February 2022 . ^ "Statement from Abramovich" . Chelsea FC . 2 March 2022. Archived from the original on 2 March 2022 . Retrieved 2 March 2022 . ^ "UK freezes assets of Abramovich, six other Russian oligarchs" . Al Jazeera . Archived from the original on 17 March 2022 . Retrieved 11 March 2022 . ^ "Roman Abramovich: Premier League disqualifies Chelsea owner as director of club" . BBC Sport. 12 March 2022. Archived from the original on 12 March 2022 . Retrieved 12 March 2022 . ^ "Aethel Partners submit Chelsea bid" . BBC Sport. Archived from the original on 21 March 2022 . Retrieved 21 March 2022 . ^ "Club statement" . Archived from the original on 7 May 2022 . Retrieved 7 May 2022 . ^ "Consortium led by Todd Boehly and Clearlake Capital completes acquisition of Chelsea Football Club" . ChelseaFC . Archived from the original on 30 May 2022 . Retrieved 31 May 2022 . ^ "UK Government Give Green Light for Chelsea Sale After Issuing New Licence for Takeover" . Sports Illustrated . 25 May 2022. Archived from the original on 28 May 2022 . Retrieved 31 May 2022 . ^ "Premier League statement" . www.premierleague.com . Archived from the original on 31 May 2022 . Retrieved 31 May 2022 . ^ "Ranked List" . Forbes . 23 May 2024. Archived from the original on 12 February 2025 . Retrieved 9 May 2025 . ^ Ozanian, Mike; Teitelbaum, Justin. "The World's Most Valuable Soccer Teams 2023" . Forbes . Archived from the original on 22 June 2023 . Retrieved 14 July 2023 . ^ "Deloitte Football Money League 2023" . Deloitte United Kingdom . Archived from the original on 20 January 2017 . Retrieved 14 July 2023 . ^ "Chelsea manager Carlo Ancelotti puts his faith in elder statesman Didier Drogba" . The Daily Telegraph . 22 October 2010. Archived from the original on 7 February 2011 . Retrieved 27 June 2012 . ^ "Chelsea and Adidas announce extension of global partnership" . Chelsea F.C. 22 June 2013. Archived from the original on 24 June 2013 . Retrieved 22 June 2013 . ^ "Adidas ends Chelsea sponsorship six years early" . BBC. 11 May 2016. Archived from the original on 28 December 2016 . Retrieved 28 December 2016 . ^ "Chelsea confirm kit deal with Nike worth £60m a season until 2032" . The Guardian . 13 October 2016. Archived from the original on 28 December 2016 . Retrieved 28 December 2016 . ^ "Chelsea sign £40m-per-year shirt deal with Japanese tyre company" . BBC Sport. 26 February 2015. Archived from the original on 27 February 2015 . Retrieved 27 February 2015 . ^ O'Connor, Ashling (2 May 2005). "Clubs to cash in on mobile advertising" . The Times . UK. Archived from the original on 29 June 2011 . Retrieved 21 January 2010 . ^ "Chelsea announces Three as new Official Shirt Partner" . chelseafc.com . Archived from the original on 22 June 2020 . Retrieved 1 July 2020 . ^ Rosser, Jack (10 March 2022). "Chelsea shirt sponsors Three suspend their £40m deal with club" . www.standard.co.uk . Archived from the original on 10 March 2022 . Retrieved 10 March 2022 . ^ "Shirt partner Three to resume activities" . www.chelseafc.com . Archived from the original on 18 July 2022 . Retrieved 18 July 2022 . ^ "Alliance Tyres to appear on 2017/18 sleeves" . chelseafc.com . 22 July 2017. Archived from the original on 24 July 2017 . Retrieved 22 July 2017 . ^ "Chelsea and Hyundai Begin New Partnership" . chelseafc.com . 11 June 2018. Archived from the original on 14 June 2018 . Retrieved 11 June 2018 . ^ "Amber Group joins Chelsea as official sleeve partner" . ChelseaFC . Archived from the original on 15 June 2022 . Retrieved 31 May 2022 . ^ "Club Partners" . chelseafc.com . Chelsea F.C. Archived from the original on 7 September 2020 . Retrieved 31 August 2023 . ^ "BingX to join Chelsea as Official Sleeve Partner" . www.chelseafc.com . Retrieved 6 January 2024 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Sponsorship

Sponsorship [ edit ] Chelsea's kit has been manufactured by Nike since July 2017. Previously, the kit was manufactured by Adidas , which was originally contracted to supply the club's kit from 2006 to 2018. The partnership was extended in October 2010 in a deal worth £160 million over eight years. This deal was again extended in June 2013 in a deal worth £300 million over another 10 years. In May 2016, Adidas announced that by mutual agreement, the kit sponsorship would end six years early on 30 June 2017. Chelsea had to pay £40m in compensation to Adidas. In October 2016, Nike was announced as the new kit sponsor, in a deal worth £900m over 15 years, until 2032. Previously, the kit was manufactured by Umbro (1975–81), Le Coq Sportif (1981–86), The Chelsea Collection (1986–87), Umbro (1987–2006), and Adidas (2006–2017). Chelsea's first shirt sponsor was Gulf Air , agreed during the 1983–84 season. The club was then sponsored by Grange Farms, Bai Lin Tea and Simod before a long-term deal was signed with Commodore International in 1989; Amiga , an offshoot of Commodore, appeared on the shirts. Chelsea was subsequently sponsored by Coors beer (1994–97), Autoglass (1997–2001), Emirates (2001–05), Samsung Mobile (2005–08), Samsung (2008–15) and Yokohama Tyres (2015–20). From July 2020, Chelsea's sponsor was Three ; however, it temporarily suspended its sponsorship in March 2022 in response to sanctions leveled by the UK government against Abramovich . It restored its sponsorship after the change of ownership of the club. Following the introduction of sleeve sponsors in the Premier League, Chelsea had Alliance Tyres as its first sleeve sponsor in the 2017–18 season , followed by Hyundai Motor Company in 2018–19 season . In 2022–23 season , Amber Group became the new sleeve sponsor, with the flagship digital asset platform WhaleFin appearing on the sleeves of both men's and women's teams. The club has a variety of other sponsors and official partners, which include Cadbury , EA Sports , FICO , Hilton Worldwide , 3 (company) , Levy Restaurants , MSC Cruises , Oman Air , Parimatch , Rexona , Singha , The St. James , Trivago and BingX. Kit suppliers and shirt sponsors [ edit ] Period Kit manufacturer Shirt sponsor (chest) Shirt sponsor (sleeve) 1975–1981 Umbro – – 1981–1983 Le Coq Sportif 1983–1984 Gulf Air 1984–1986 – 1986–1987 The Chelsea Collection Bai Lin Tea 1987 Simod 1987–1993 Umbro Commodore 1993–1994 Amiga 1994–1997 Coors 1997–2001 Autoglass 2001–2005 Emirates 2005–2006 Samsung 2006–2015 Adidas 2015–2017 Yokohama Tyres 2017–2018 Nike Alliance Tire Company 2018–2020 Hyundai 2020–2022 Three 2022–2023 WhaleFin 2023–2024 Infinite Athlete BingX 2024–2025 – Fever 2025 DAMAC Live Nation 2025– – – ^ "Chelsea manager Carlo Ancelotti puts his faith in elder statesman Didier Drogba" . The Daily Telegraph . 22 October 2010. Archived from the original on 7 February 2011 . Retrieved 27 June 2012 . ^ "Chelsea and Adidas announce extension of global partnership" . Chelsea F.C. 22 June 2013. Archived from the original on 24 June 2013 . Retrieved 22 June 2013 . ^ "Adidas ends Chelsea sponsorship six years early" . BBC. 11 May 2016. Archived from the original on 28 December 2016 . Retrieved 28 December 2016 . ^ "Chelsea confirm kit deal with Nike worth £60m a season until 2032" . The Guardian . 13 October 2016. Archived from the original on 28 December 2016 . Retrieved 28 December 2016 . ^ "Chelsea sign £40m-per-year shirt deal with Japanese tyre company" . BBC Sport. 26 February 2015. Archived from the original on 27 February 2015 . Retrieved 27 February 2015 . ^ O'Connor, Ashling (2 May 2005). "Clubs to cash in on mobile advertising" . The Times . UK. Archived from the original on 29 June 2011 . Retrieved 21 January 2010 . ^ "Chelsea announces Three as new Official Shirt Partner" . chelseafc.com . Archived from the original on 22 June 2020 . Retrieved 1 July 2020 . ^ Rosser, Jack (10 March 2022). "Chelsea shirt sponsors Three suspend their £40m deal with club" . www.standard.co.uk . Archived from the original on 10 March 2022 . Retrieved 10 March 2022 . ^ "Shirt partner Three to resume activities" . www.chelseafc.com . Archived from the original on 18 July 2022 . Retrieved 18 July 2022 . ^ "Alliance Tyres to appear on 2017/18 sleeves" . chelseafc.com . 22 July 2017. Archived from the original on 24 July 2017 . Retrieved 22 July 2017 . ^ "Chelsea and Hyundai Begin New Partnership" . chelseafc.com . 11 June 2018. Archived from the original on 14 June 2018 . Retrieved 11 June 2018 . ^ "Amber Group joins Chelsea as official sleeve partner" . ChelseaFC . Archived from the original on 15 June 2022 . Retrieved 31 May 2022 . ^ "Club Partners" . chelseafc.com . Chelsea F.C. Archived from the original on 7 September 2020 . Retrieved 31 August 2023 . ^ "BingX to join Chelsea as Official Sleeve Partner" . www.chelseafc.com . Retrieved 6 January 2024 .

______________________________________________________________________

#### Kit suppliers and shirt sponsors

Kit suppliers and shirt sponsors [ edit ] Period Kit manufacturer Shirt sponsor (chest) Shirt sponsor (sleeve) 1975–1981 Umbro – – 1981–1983 Le Coq Sportif 1983–1984 Gulf Air 1984–1986 – 1986–1987 The Chelsea Collection Bai Lin Tea 1987 Simod 1987–1993 Umbro Commodore 1993–1994 Amiga 1994–1997 Coors 1997–2001 Autoglass 2001–2005 Emirates 2005–2006 Samsung 2006–2015 Adidas 2015–2017 Yokohama Tyres 2017–2018 Nike Alliance Tire Company 2018–2020 Hyundai 2020–2022 Three 2022–2023 WhaleFin 2023–2024 Infinite Athlete BingX 2024–2025 – Fever 2025 DAMAC Live Nation 2025– – –

______________________________________________________________________

## Popular culture

Popular culture [ edit ] Chelsea parade through the streets of Fulham and Chelsea after winning their league and cup double, May 2010 In 1930, Chelsea featured in one of the earliest football films, The Great Game . One-time Chelsea centre forward, Jack Cock , who by then was playing for Millwall , was the star of the film and several scenes were shot at Stamford Bridge , including on the pitch, the boardroom, and the dressing rooms . It included guest appearances by then-Chelsea players Andrew Wilson , George Mills , and Sam Millington . Owing to the notoriety of the Chelsea Headhunters , a football firm associated with the club, Chelsea have featured in films about football hooliganism , including 2004's The Football Factory . Chelsea appeared in the Hindi film Jhoom Barabar Jhoom . In April 2011, Montenegrin comedy series Nijesmo mi od juče made an episode in which Chelsea played against FK Sutjeska Nikšić for qualification of the UEFA Champions League . Up until the 1950s, the club had a long-running association with the music halls ; their underachievement often provided material for comedians such as George Robey . It culminated in comedian Norman Long's release of a comic song in 1933, ironically titled "On the Day That Chelsea Went and Won the Cup", the lyrics of which describe a series of bizarre and improbable occurrences on the hypothetical day when Chelsea finally won a trophy. In Alfred Hitchcock 's 1935 film The 39 Steps , Mr Memory claims that Chelsea last won the Cup in 63 BC, "in the presence of the Emperor Nero ." Scenes in a 1980 episode of Minder were filmed during a real match at Stamford Bridge between Chelsea and Preston North End with Terry McCann ( Dennis Waterman ) standing on the terraces. ^ "The Great Game" . Internet Movie Database . Archived from the original on 11 March 2005 . Retrieved 1 October 2007 . ^ Glanvill, Rick (2006). Chelsea FC: The Official Biography . pp. 120– 121. ^ Hawkes, Steve (10 May 2004). "Football firms hit the film circuit" . BBC Sport . Archived from the original on 12 January 2016 . Retrieved 25 January 2007 . ^ "Chelsea teams up with Yash Raj Films" . DNA India . 25 September 2006. Archived from the original on 30 September 2007 . Retrieved 1 January 2007 . ^ "Nijesmo mi od Juce – Novosti – Epizode – Chelsea u "gledajte onlajn" sekciji" (in Montenegrin). nijesmomiodjuce.com. Archived from the original on 30 August 2013 . Retrieved 23 April 2014 . ^ Murray, Scott (30 September 2002). "Di Canio has last laugh at Chelsea comedy store" . The Guardian . Archived from the original on 6 January 2014 . Retrieved 14 July 2011 . ^ Cite error: The named reference glanville was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ "The 39 Steps" . Internet Movie Database . Archived from the original on 4 June 2016 . Retrieved 5 May 2014 . ^ "All About Scoring, Innit?" . Minder.org. Archived from the original on 10 August 2015 . Retrieved 8 September 2015 .

______________________________________________________________________

## Players

Players [ edit ] For a complete list of players, see List of Chelsea F.C. players with 100+ appearances , 25–99 appearances and 1–24 appearances . See also: Chelsea F.C. Player of the Season First-team squad [ edit ] As of 1 June 2025 Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules ; some limited exceptions apply. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. No. Pos. Nation Player 1 GK ESP Robert Sánchez 3 DF ESP Marc Cucurella 4 DF ENG Tosin Adarabioyo 5 DF FRA Benoît Badiashile 6 DF ENG Levi Colwill 7 FW POR Pedro Neto 8 MF ARG Enzo Fernández ( vice-captain ) 10 FW UKR Mykhailo Mudryk 11 FW ENG Noni Madueke 12 GK DEN Filip Jörgensen 13 GK ENG Marcus Bettinelli 15 FW SEN Nicolas Jackson 18 FW FRA Christopher Nkunku 19 FW ENG Jadon Sancho 20 MF ENG Cole Palmer No. Pos. Nation Player 22 MF ENG Kiernan Dewsbury-Hall 23 DF ENG Trevoh Chalobah 24 DF ENG Reece James ( captain ) 25 MF ECU Moisés Caicedo 27 DF FRA Malo Gusto 29 DF FRA Wesley Fofana 30 DF ARG Aarón Anselmino 32 FW ENG Tyrique George 34 DF ENG Josh Acheampong 37 MF ENG Omari Kellyman 38 FW ESP Marc Guiu 39 MF FRA Mathis Amougou 45 MF BEL Roméo Lavia 47 GK FIN Lucas Bergström — FW CIV David Datro Fofana Development Squad and Academy [ edit ] Main article: Chelsea F.C. Development Squad and Academy Players to have at least one first-team appearance for Chelsea. As of 1 May 2025 Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules ; some limited exceptions apply. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. No. Pos. Nation Player 33 MF ENG Kiano Dyer 42 MF FIN Jimi Tauriainen 51 MF ENG Samuel Rak-Sakyi 55 FW ENG Ato Ampah No. Pos. Nation Player 59 DF ENG Harrison Murray-Campbell 64 DF SWE Genesis Antwi 76 FW ENG Shim Mheuka 81 MF ENG Reggie Walsh Out on loan [ edit ] As of 1 June 2025 Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules ; some limited exceptions apply. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. No. Pos. Nation Player — FW BRA Deivid Washington (at Santos until 31 December 2025) Other players under contract [ edit ] As of 1 June 2025 Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules ; some limited exceptions apply. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. No. Pos. Nation Player — GK ESP Kepa Arrizabalaga — GK SRB Đorđe Petrović — GK ENG Teddy Sharman-Lowe — DF ENG Ben Chilwell — DF FRA Axel Disasi — DF ENG Alfie Gilchrist — DF ENG Zak Sturge — DF POR Renato Veiga — DF USA Caleb Wiley No. Pos. Nation Player — MF ENG Leo Castledine — MF ENG Carney Chukwuemeka — MF POR João Félix — MF ENG Alex Matos — MF BRA Andrey Santos — MF FRA Lesley Ugochukwu — FW ALB Armando Broja — FW ENG Jimmy-Jay Morgan — FW ENG Raheem Sterling ^ "Men: Senior" . Chelsea F.C. Archived from the original on 16 January 2023 . Retrieved 18 July 2023 . ^ "Men: On Loan" . Chelsea F.C. Archived from the original on 7 August 2022 . Retrieved 2 August 2024 .

______________________________________________________________________

### First-team squad

First-team squad [ edit ] As of 1 June 2025 Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules ; some limited exceptions apply. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. No. Pos. Nation Player 1 GK ESP Robert Sánchez 3 DF ESP Marc Cucurella 4 DF ENG Tosin Adarabioyo 5 DF FRA Benoît Badiashile 6 DF ENG Levi Colwill 7 FW POR Pedro Neto 8 MF ARG Enzo Fernández ( vice-captain ) 10 FW UKR Mykhailo Mudryk 11 FW ENG Noni Madueke 12 GK DEN Filip Jörgensen 13 GK ENG Marcus Bettinelli 15 FW SEN Nicolas Jackson 18 FW FRA Christopher Nkunku 19 FW ENG Jadon Sancho 20 MF ENG Cole Palmer No. Pos. Nation Player 22 MF ENG Kiernan Dewsbury-Hall 23 DF ENG Trevoh Chalobah 24 DF ENG Reece James ( captain ) 25 MF ECU Moisés Caicedo 27 DF FRA Malo Gusto 29 DF FRA Wesley Fofana 30 DF ARG Aarón Anselmino 32 FW ENG Tyrique George 34 DF ENG Josh Acheampong 37 MF ENG Omari Kellyman 38 FW ESP Marc Guiu 39 MF FRA Mathis Amougou 45 MF BEL Roméo Lavia 47 GK FIN Lucas Bergström — FW CIV David Datro Fofana ^ "Men: Senior" . Chelsea F.C. Archived from the original on 16 January 2023 . Retrieved 18 July 2023 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Development Squad and Academy

Development Squad and Academy [ edit ] Main article: Chelsea F.C. Development Squad and Academy Players to have at least one first-team appearance for Chelsea. As of 1 May 2025 Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules ; some limited exceptions apply. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. No. Pos. Nation Player 33 MF ENG Kiano Dyer 42 MF FIN Jimi Tauriainen 51 MF ENG Samuel Rak-Sakyi 55 FW ENG Ato Ampah No. Pos. Nation Player 59 DF ENG Harrison Murray-Campbell 64 DF SWE Genesis Antwi 76 FW ENG Shim Mheuka 81 MF ENG Reggie Walsh

______________________________________________________________________

### Out on loan

Out on loan [ edit ] As of 1 June 2025 Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules ; some limited exceptions apply. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. No. Pos. Nation Player — FW BRA Deivid Washington (at Santos until 31 December 2025) ^ "Men: On Loan" . Chelsea F.C. Archived from the original on 7 August 2022 . Retrieved 2 August 2024 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Other players under contract

Other players under contract [ edit ] As of 1 June 2025 Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules ; some limited exceptions apply. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. No. Pos. Nation Player — GK ESP Kepa Arrizabalaga — GK SRB Đorđe Petrović — GK ENG Teddy Sharman-Lowe — DF ENG Ben Chilwell — DF FRA Axel Disasi — DF ENG Alfie Gilchrist — DF ENG Zak Sturge — DF POR Renato Veiga — DF USA Caleb Wiley No. Pos. Nation Player — MF ENG Leo Castledine — MF ENG Carney Chukwuemeka — MF POR João Félix — MF ENG Alex Matos — MF BRA Andrey Santos — MF FRA Lesley Ugochukwu — FW ALB Armando Broja — FW ENG Jimmy-Jay Morgan — FW ENG Raheem Sterling

______________________________________________________________________

## Management

Management [ edit ] Coaching staff [ edit ] Enzo Maresca is the team's current head coach. Position Staff Head coach Enzo Maresca Assistant coach Willy Caballero First team coach Roberto Vitiello Danny Walker Goalkeeper coaches Michele De Bernardin Hilário Assistant goalkeeper coach James Russell Head of global goalkeeping Ben Roberts Fitness coaches Marcos Alvarez Player support and development officer Willie Isa Technical analyst Bernardo Cueva Match analyst Javi Molina Loan technical coaches Carlo Cudicini Under-21s head coach Filipe Coelho Under-21s assistant Jack Mesure James Simmonds Under-18s head coach Hassan Sulaiman Under-18s assistant Andy Ross Jimmy Smith Source: Chelsea F.C. Notable managers [ edit ] Further information: List of Chelsea F.C. managers The following managers won at least one trophy when in charge of Chelsea: Name Period Trophies Ted Drake 1952–1961 First Division Championship , Charity Shield Tommy Docherty 1962–1967 League Cup Dave Sexton 1967–1974 FA Cup , UEFA Cup Winners' Cup John Neal 1981–1985 Second Division Championship John Hollins 1985–1988 Full Members Cup Bobby Campbell 1988–1991 Second Division Championship , Full Members Cup Ruud Gullit 1996–1998 FA Cup Gianluca Vialli 1998–2000 FA Cup , League Cup , Charity Shield , UEFA Cup Winners' Cup , UEFA Super Cup José Mourinho 2004–2007 2013–2015 3 Premier Leagues , 3 League Cups , FA Cup , Community Shield Guus Hiddink 2009 2015–2016 FA Cup Carlo Ancelotti 2009–2011 Premier League , FA Cup , Community Shield Roberto Di Matteo 2012 FA Cup , UEFA Champions League Rafael Benítez 2012–2013 UEFA Europa League Antonio Conte 2016–2018 Premier League , FA Cup Maurizio Sarri 2018–2019 UEFA Europa League Thomas Tuchel 2021–2022 UEFA Champions League , UEFA Super Cup , FIFA Club World Cup Enzo Maresca 2024– UEFA Conference League Club personnel [ edit ] Position Name Chairman Todd Boehly Directors David Barnard Barbara Charone Behdad Eghbali José E. Feliciano Daniel Finkelstein Jonathan Goldstein James Pade Mark Walter Hansjörg Wyss Chief executive officer Jason Gannon President of business Tom Glick Director of football operations David Barnard Vice presidents Joe Hemani Anthony Reeves Alan Spence Source: Chelsea F.C. ^ "Jason Gannon Promoted to President & Chief Operating Officer" . chelseafc.com . 5 September 2024 . Retrieved 25 May 2025 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Coaching staff

Coaching staff [ edit ] Enzo Maresca is the team's current head coach. Position Staff Head coach Enzo Maresca Assistant coach Willy Caballero First team coach Roberto Vitiello Danny Walker Goalkeeper coaches Michele De Bernardin Hilário Assistant goalkeeper coach James Russell Head of global goalkeeping Ben Roberts Fitness coaches Marcos Alvarez Player support and development officer Willie Isa Technical analyst Bernardo Cueva Match analyst Javi Molina Loan technical coaches Carlo Cudicini Under-21s head coach Filipe Coelho Under-21s assistant Jack Mesure James Simmonds Under-18s head coach Hassan Sulaiman Under-18s assistant Andy Ross Jimmy Smith Source: Chelsea F.C.

______________________________________________________________________

### Notable managers

Notable managers [ edit ] Further information: List of Chelsea F.C. managers The following managers won at least one trophy when in charge of Chelsea: Name Period Trophies Ted Drake 1952–1961 First Division Championship , Charity Shield Tommy Docherty 1962–1967 League Cup Dave Sexton 1967–1974 FA Cup , UEFA Cup Winners' Cup John Neal 1981–1985 Second Division Championship John Hollins 1985–1988 Full Members Cup Bobby Campbell 1988–1991 Second Division Championship , Full Members Cup Ruud Gullit 1996–1998 FA Cup Gianluca Vialli 1998–2000 FA Cup , League Cup , Charity Shield , UEFA Cup Winners' Cup , UEFA Super Cup José Mourinho 2004–2007 2013–2015 3 Premier Leagues , 3 League Cups , FA Cup , Community Shield Guus Hiddink 2009 2015–2016 FA Cup Carlo Ancelotti 2009–2011 Premier League , FA Cup , Community Shield Roberto Di Matteo 2012 FA Cup , UEFA Champions League Rafael Benítez 2012–2013 UEFA Europa League Antonio Conte 2016–2018 Premier League , FA Cup Maurizio Sarri 2018–2019 UEFA Europa League Thomas Tuchel 2021–2022 UEFA Champions League , UEFA Super Cup , FIFA Club World Cup Enzo Maresca 2024– UEFA Conference League

______________________________________________________________________

### Club personnel

Club personnel [ edit ] Position Name Chairman Todd Boehly Directors David Barnard Barbara Charone Behdad Eghbali José E. Feliciano Daniel Finkelstein Jonathan Goldstein James Pade Mark Walter Hansjörg Wyss Chief executive officer Jason Gannon President of business Tom Glick Director of football operations David Barnard Vice presidents Joe Hemani Anthony Reeves Alan Spence Source: Chelsea F.C. ^ "Jason Gannon Promoted to President & Chief Operating Officer" . chelseafc.com . 5 September 2024 . Retrieved 25 May 2025 .

______________________________________________________________________

## Honours

Honours [ edit ] Main article: List of Chelsea F.C. records and statistics § Honours Upon winning the 2012–13 UEFA Europa League , Chelsea became the fourth club in history to have won the " European Treble " of European Cup/UEFA Champions League , UEFA Cup/UEFA Europa League , and European Cup Winners' Cup/UEFA Cup Winners' Cup after Juventus , Ajax and Bayern Munich . Chelsea is the first English club to have won all three major UEFA trophies of the past, and the first club overall in the present form. Chelsea F.C. honours Type Competition Titles Seasons Domestic First Division / Premier League 6 1954–55 , 2004–05 , 2005–06 , 2009–10 , 2014–15 , 2016–17 Second Division 2 1983–84 , 1988–89 FA Cup 8 1969–70 , 1996–97 , 1999–2000 , 2006–07 , 2008–09 , 2009–10 , 2011–12 , 2017–18 Football League Cup/EFL Cup 5 1964–65 , 1997–98 , 2004–05 , 2006–07 , 2014–15 FA Charity Shield/FA Community Shield 4 1955 , 2000 , 2005 , 2009 Full Members' Cup 2 s 1985–86 , 1989–90 Continental UEFA Champions League 2 2011–12 , 2020–21 UEFA Europa League 2 2012–13 , 2018–19 UEFA Conference League 1 s 2024–25 UEFA Cup Winners' Cup 2 1970–71 , 1997–98 UEFA Super Cup 2 1998 , 2021 Worldwide FIFA Club World Cup 1 2021 record s shared record Didier Drogba holding the Champions League trophy after Chelsea's victory in 2012 Doubles [ edit ] Premier League and FA Cup : 2009–10 Premier League and League Cup : 2004–05 , 2014–15 League Cup and European Cup Winners' Cup : 1997–98 FA Cup and League Cup : 2006–07 FA Cup and UEFA Champions League : 2011–12 ^ "Chelsea join illustrious trio" . UEFA.com . Union of European Football Associations. 15 May 2013. Archived from the original on 14 August 2017 . Retrieved 17 May 2013 . Cite error: There are <ref group=nb> tags on this page, but the references will not show without a {{reflist|group=nb}} template (see the help page ).

______________________________________________________________________

### Doubles

Doubles [ edit ] Premier League and FA Cup : 2009–10 Premier League and League Cup : 2004–05 , 2014–15 League Cup and European Cup Winners' Cup : 1997–98 FA Cup and League Cup : 2006–07 FA Cup and UEFA Champions League : 2011–12

______________________________________________________________________

## Chelsea Women

Chelsea Women [ edit ] Further information: Chelsea F.C. Women Chelsea operate a women's football team, Chelsea Football Club Women , formerly known as Chelsea Ladies. They have been affiliated to the men's team since 2004 and are part of the club's Community Development programme. They play their home games at Kingsmeadow , formerly the home ground of the EFL League Two club AFC Wimbledon . The club were promoted to the Premier Division for the first time in 2005 as Southern Division champions and won the Surrey County Cup nine times between 2003 and 2013. In 2010, Chelsea Ladies were one of the eight founder members of the FA Women's Super League . In 2015, Chelsea Ladies won the FA Women's Cup for the first time, beating Notts County Ladies at Wembley Stadium , and a month later clinched their first FA WSL title to complete a league and cup double. In 2018, they won a second league and FA Cup double. Two years later, in 2020, they repeated their double success by winning the third league title and the FA Women's League Cup for the first time. In the 2020–21 season, Chelsea won a domestic treble by winning the league, FA Cup and League Cup. They reached the final of the UEFA Women's Champions League for the first time, losing to Barcelona 4–0. John Terry , former captain of the Chelsea men's team, is the president of Chelsea Women. ^ "Chelsea Moving on Up" . FemaleSoccer.net. Archived from the original on 20 March 2017 . Retrieved 20 February 2011 . ^ "Womens Cup Previous Winners" . surreyfa.com. Archived from the original on 5 September 2014 . Retrieved 11 March 2014 . ^ "Eight teams successful in Women's Super League bid" . London: fcbusiness.co.uk. 24 March 2010. Archived from the original on 25 January 2011 . Retrieved 20 February 2011 . ^ "Chelsea lift FA Cup in front of record crowd" . shekicks.net. 2 August 2015. Archived from the original on 8 December 2015 . Retrieved 2 August 2015 . ^ "Chelsea Ladies: How Women's Super League title was won" . UK: BBC. 5 October 2015. Archived from the original on 29 December 2015 . Retrieved 30 November 2015 . ^ "Chelsea Ladies win Super League title to complete double and give Katie Chapman perfect farewell" . The Daily Telegraph . UK. 15 May 2018. Archived from the original on 6 July 2019 . Retrieved 6 July 2019 . ^ "Chelsea named Women's Super League champions, Liverpool relegated" . BBC Sport . UK. 5 June 2020. Archived from the original on 15 September 2020 . Retrieved 23 August 2020 . ^ "Chelsea Women 2–1 Arsenal Women: Blues' Beth England scores injury-time winner in League Cup final" . UK: BBC Sport. 29 February 2020. Archived from the original on 29 February 2020 . Retrieved 23 August 2020 . ^ Gastelum, Andrew (5 December 2021). "Chelsea Wins Women's FA Cup to Complete Domestic Treble" . Sports Illustrated . Archived from the original on 20 May 2022 . Retrieved 20 May 2022 . ^ Law, James (16 May 2021). "Chelsea thrashed by Barcelona in final" . BBC Sport . Archived from the original on 6 April 2022 . Retrieved 20 May 2022 . ^ Leighton, Tony (18 October 2009). "John Terry digs deep to rescue Chelsea Ladies after funding cuts" . The Guardian . UK. Archived from the original on 7 November 2014 . Retrieved 20 February 2011 .

______________________________________________________________________

## See also

See also [ edit ] List of world champion football clubs Chelsea F.C. Women

______________________________________________________________________

## Footnotes

Footnotes [ edit ]

______________________________________________________________________

## References

References [ edit ]

______________________________________________________________________

## Further reading

Further reading [ edit ] Batty, Clive (2004). Kings of the King's Road: The Great Chelsea Team of the 60s and 70s . Vision Sports Publishing Ltd. ISBN 978-0-9546428-1-5 . Batty, Clive (2005). A Serious Case of the Blues: Chelsea in the 80s . Vision Sports Publishing Ltd. ISBN 978-1-905326-02-0 . Glanvill, Rick (2006). Chelsea FC: The Official Biography – The Definitive Story of the First 100 Years . Headline Book Publishing Ltd. ISBN 978-0-7553-1466-9 . Hadgraft, Rob (2004). Chelsea: Champions of England 1954–55 . Desert Island Books Limited. ISBN 978-1-874287-77-3 . Harris, Harry (2005). Chelsea's Century . Blake Publishing. ISBN 978-1-84454-110-2 . Ingledew, John (2006). And Now Are You Going to Believe Us: Twenty-five Years Behind the Scenes at Chelsea FC . John Blake Publishing Ltd. ISBN 978-1-84454-247-5 . Matthews, Tony (2005). Who's Who of Chelsea . Mainstream Publishing. ISBN 978-1-84596-010-0 . Mears, Brian (2004). Chelsea: A 100-year History . Mainstream Sport. ISBN 978-1-84018-823-3 . Mears, Brian (2002). Chelsea: Football Under the Blue Flag . Mainstream Sport. ISBN 978-1-84018-658-1 .

______________________________________________________________________

## External links

External links [ edit ] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Chelsea F.C. . Wikinews has news related to: Chelsea F.C. Official website Independent websites [ edit ] Chelsea F.C. on BBC Sport : Club news – Recent results and fixtures Chelsea at Sky Sports Chelsea FC at Premier League Chelsea FC at UEFA v t e Chelsea Football Club Managers Men Women Seasons Men Women Current season Men Women Teams Men Development Squad and Academy Women History 1905–1952 1952–1983 1983–2003 2003–2022 2022–present Records and statistics International records Home stadium Stamford Bridge Chelsea Pitch Owners Other grounds Cobham Training Centre Kingsmeadow (Women and Academy) Honours Men Development Squad and Academy Women Players Men 100+ appearances 25–99 appearances 1–24 appearances Player of the Season Academy graduates Women Wartime guest players Rivalries League record by opponent West London derby Arsenal rivalry Tottenham rivalry Leeds United rivalry Liverpool rivalry Notable matches Men Women Supporters Chelsea Headhunters Ownership BlueCo Affiliated teams RC Strasbourg Alsace Media Chelsea TV The Great Game Football Icon Chants " The Liquidator " " Carefree " Singles " Blue is the Colour " (1972) " No One Can Stop Us Now " (1994) " Blue Day " (1997) " Blue Tomorrow " (2000) Category:Chelsea F.C. Category:Chelsea F.C. Women Links to related articles v t e Chelsea F.C. – current squad 1 Sánchez 3 Cucurella 4 Tosin 5 Badiashile 6 Colwill 7 Neto 8 Enzo 10 Mudryk 11 Madueke 12 Jörgensen 13 Bettinelli 15 Jackson 18 Nkunku 19 Sancho 20 Palmer 22 Dewsbury-Hall 23 Chalobah 24 James ( c ) 25 Caicedo 27 Gusto 29 Fofana 30 Anselmino 32 George 34 Acheampong 37 Kellyman 38 Guiu 39 Amougou 45 Lavia 47 Bergström Estêvão Manager: Maresca v t e Chelsea F.C. matches National FA Cup Finals 1915 1967 1970 1994 1997 2000 2002 2007 2009 2010 2012 2017 2018 2020 2021 2022 Knockout Chelsea 2–4 Bradford City (2015) EFL Cup finals 1965 1972 1998 2005 2007 2008 2015 2019 2022 2024 FA Community Shield 1955 1970 1997 2000 2005 2006 2007 2009 2010 2012 2015 2017 2018 Full Members' Cup finals 1986 1990 Football League play-off finals 1988 Second Division Continental UEFA Champions League finals 2008 2012 2021 UEFA Cup Winners' Cup finals 1971 1998 UEFA Europa League finals 2013 2019 UEFA Conference League final 2025 UEFA Super Cup 1998 2012 2013 2019 2021 International FIFA Club World Cup finals 2012 2021 Non-official Exhibition matches 1937 Paris Exhibition Football League War Cup finals 1944 1945 (south) 1945 (play-off) MLS All-Star Game 2006 2012 v t e Chelsea F.C. seasons 1905–06 1906–07 1907–08 1908–09 1909–10 1910–11 1911–12 1912–13 1913–14 1914–15 1915–16 1916–17 1917–18 1918–19 1919–20 1920–21 1921–22 1922–23 1923–24 1924–25 1925–26 1926–27 1927–28 1928–29 1929–30 1930–31 1931–32 1932–33 1933–34 1934–35 1935–36 1936–37 1937–38 1938–39 1939–40 1940–41 1941–42 1942–43 1943–44 1944–45 1945–46 1946–47 1947–48 1948–49 1949–50 1950–51 1951–52 1952–53 1953–54 1954–55 1955–56 1956–57 1957–58 1958–59 1959–60 1960–61 1961–62 1962–63 1963–64 1964–65 1965–66 1966–67 1967–68 1968–69 1969–70 1970–71 1971–72 1972–73 1973–74 1974–75 1975–76 1976–77 1977–78 1978–79 1979–80 1980–81 1981–82 1982–83 1983–84 1984–85 1985–86 1986–87 1987–88 1988–89 1989–90 1990–91 1991–92 1992–93 1993–94 1994–95 1995–96 1996–97 1997–98 1998–99 1999–2000 2000–01 2001–02 2002–03 2003–04 2004–05 2005–06 2006–07 2007–08 2008–09 2009–10 2010–11 2011–12 2012–13 2013–14 2014–15 2015–16 2016–17 2017–18 2018–19 2019–20 2020–21 2021–22 2022–23 2023–24 2024–25 2025–26 v t e Chelsea F.C. – managers Robertson p ( 1905 –06) Lewis i ( 1906 –07) Calderhead ( 1907 –33) Knighton ( 1933 –39) Birrell ( 1939 –52) Drake ( 1952 –61) Docherty ( 1961 –67) Suart c ( 1967 ) Sexton ( 1967 –74) Suart i ( 1974 –75) McCreadie ( 1975 –77) Shellito ( 1977 –78) Blanchflower ( 1978 –79) Hurst ( 1979 –81) Gould c ( 1981 ) Neal ( 1981 –85) Hollins ( 1985 –88) Campbell ( 1988 –91) Porterfield ( 1991 –93) Webb i ( 1993 ) Hoddle p ( 1993 –96) Gullit p ( 1996 –98) Vialli p ( 1998 –2000) Rix c ( 2000 ) Ranieri ( 2000 –04) Mourinho ( 2004 –07) Grant ( 2007 –08) Scolari ( 2008 –09) Wilkins c ( 2009 ) Hiddink i ( 2009 ) Ancelotti ( 2009 –11) Villas-Boas ( 2011 –12) Di Matteo ( 2012 ) Benítez i ( 2012 –13) Mourinho ( 2013 –15) Holland c ( 2015 ) Hiddink i ( 2015 –16) Conte ( 2016 –18) Sarri ( 2018 –19) Lampard ( 2019 –21) Tuchel ( 2021 –22) Potter ( 2022 –23) Bruno c ( 2023 ) Lampard i ( 2023 ) Pochettino ( 2023 –24) Maresca ( 2024 –) (c) = caretaker manager ; (i) = interim; (p) = player-manager v t e Chelsea F.C. – Player of the Season 1967: Bonetti 1968: Cooke 1969: Webb 1970: Hollins 1971: Hollins 1972: Webb 1973: Osgood 1974: Locke 1975: Cooke 1976: Wilkins 1977: Wilkins 1978: Droy 1979: Langley 1980: Walker 1981: Borota 1982: Fillery 1983: Jones 1984: Nevin 1985: Speedie 1986: Niedzwiecki 1987: Nevin 1988: Dorigo 1989: Roberts 1990: Monkou 1991: Townsend 1992: Elliott 1993: Sinclair 1994: Clarke 1995: Johnsen 1996: Gullit 1997: Hughes 1998: Wise 1999: Zola 2000: Wise 2001: Terry 2002: Cudicini 2003: Zola 2004: Lampard 2005: Lampard 2006: Terry 2007: Essien 2008: J. Cole 2009: Lampard 2010: Drogba 2011: Čech 2012: Mata 2013: Mata 2014: Hazard 2015: Hazard 2016: Willian 2017: Hazard 2018: Kanté 2019: Hazard 2020: Kovačić 2021: Mount 2022: Mount 2023: Silva 2024: Palmer 2025: Caicedo v t e Chelsea F.C. – chairpersons Kirby (1905–35) Pratt Snr. (1935–36) Crisp (1936–40) J. Mears (1940–66) Pratt Jnr. (1966–68) Withey (1968–69) B. Mears (1969–81) Viscount Chelsea (1981–82) Bates (1982–2004) Buck (2004–22) Boehly (2022–) v t e Hit singles recorded by Chelsea Football Club " Blue is the Colour " (1972) " No One Can Stop Us Now " (1994) " Blue Day " (1997) " Blue Tomorrow " (2000) See also: All UK hit singles by footballers v t e European Cup and UEFA Champions League winners European Cup era, 1955–1992 1950s 1955–56 : Real Madrid 1956–57 : Real Madrid 1957–58 : Real Madrid 1958–59 : Real Madrid 1959–60 : Real Madrid 1960s 1960–61 : Benfica 1961–62 : Benfica 1962–63 : Milan 1963–64 : Inter Milan 1964–65 : Inter Milan 1965–66 : Real Madrid 1966–67 : Celtic 1967–68 : Manchester United 1968–69 : Milan 1969–70 : Feyenoord 1970s 1970–71 : Ajax 1971–72 : Ajax 1972–73 : Ajax 1973–74 : Bayern Munich 1974–75 : Bayern Munich 1975–76 : Bayern Munich 1976–77 : Liverpool 1977–78 : Liverpool 1978–79 : Nottingham Forest 1979–80 : Nottingham Forest 1980s 1980–81 : Liverpool 1981–82 : Aston Villa 1982–83 : Hamburger SV 1983–84 : Liverpool 1984–85 : Juventus 1985–86 : Steaua București 1986–87 : Porto 1987–88 : PSV 1988–89 : Milan 1989–90 : Milan 1990s 1990–91 : Red Star Belgrade 1991–92 : Barcelona UEFA Champions League era, 1992–present 1990s 1992–93 : Marseille 1993–94 : Milan 1994–95 : Ajax 1995–96 : Juventus 1996–97 : Borussia Dortmund 1997–98 : Real Madrid 1998–99 : Manchester United 1999–2000 : Real Madrid 2000s 2000–01 : Bayern Munich 2001–02 : Real Madrid 2002–03 : Milan 2003–04 : Porto 2004–05 : Liverpool 2005–06 : Barcelona 2006–07 : Milan 2007–08 : Manchester United 2008–09 : Barcelona 2009–10 : Inter Milan 2010s 2010–11 : Barcelona 2011–12 : Chelsea 2012–13 : Bayern Munich 2013–14 : Real Madrid 2014–15 : Barcelona 2015–16 : Real Madrid 2016–17 : Real Madrid 2017–18 : Real Madrid 2018–19 : Liverpool 2019–20 : Bayern Munich 2020s 2020–21 : Chelsea 2021–22 : Real Madrid 2022–23 : Manchester City 2023–24 : Real Madrid 2024–25 : Paris Saint-Germain Finals Winning managers v t e UEFA Cup and UEFA Europa League winners UEFA Cup era, 1971–2009 1970s 1971–72 : Tottenham Hotspur 1972–73 : Liverpool 1973–74 : Feyenoord 1974–75 : Borussia Mönchengladbach 1975–76 : Liverpool 1976–77 : Juventus 1977–78 : PSV Eindhoven 1978–79 : Borussia Mönchengladbach 1979–80 : Eintracht Frankfurt 1980s 1980–81 : Ipswich Town 1981–82 : IFK Göteborg 1982–83 : Anderlecht 1983–84 : Tottenham Hotspur 1984–85 : Real Madrid 1985–86 : Real Madrid 1986–87 : IFK Göteborg 1987–88 : Bayer Leverkusen 1988–89 : Napoli 1989–90 : Juventus 1990s 1990–91 : Internazionale 1991–92 : Ajax 1992–93 : Juventus 1993–94 : Internazionale 1994–95 : Parma 1995–96 : Bayern Munich 1996–97 : Schalke 04 1997–98 : Internazionale 1998–99 : Parma 1999–2000 : Galatasaray 2000s 2000–01 : Liverpool 2001–02 : Feyenoord 2002–03 : Porto 2003–04 : Valencia 2004–05 : CSKA Moscow 2005–06 : Sevilla 2006–07 : Sevilla 2007–08 : Zenit Saint Petersburg 2008–09 : Shakhtar Donetsk UEFA Europa League era, 2009–present 2000s 2009–10 : Atlético Madrid 2010s 2010–11 : Porto 2011–12 : Atlético Madrid 2012–13 : Chelsea 2013–14 : Sevilla 2014–15 : Sevilla 2015–16 : Sevilla 2016–17 : Manchester United 2017–18 : Atlético Madrid 2018–19 : Chelsea 2019–20 : Sevilla 2020s 2020–21 : Villarreal 2021–22 : Eintracht Frankfurt 2022–23 : Sevilla 2023–24 : Atalanta 2024–25 : Tottenham Hotspur Finals Winning managers v t e UEFA Conference League winners 2020s 2021–22 : Roma 2022–23 : West Ham United 2023–24 : Olympiacos 2024–25 : Chelsea v t e UEFA Cup Winners' Cup winners 1960s 1960–61 : Fiorentina 1961–62 : Atlético Madrid 1962–63 : Tottenham Hotspur 1963–64 : Sporting CP 1964–65 : West Ham United 1965–66 : Borussia Dortmund 1966–67 : Bayern Munich 1967–68 : AC Milan 1968–69 : Slovan Bratislava 1969–70 : Manchester City 1970s 1970–71 : Chelsea 1971–72 : Rangers 1972–73 : AC Milan 1973–74 : 1. FC Magdeburg 1974–75 : Dynamo Kyiv 1975–76 : Anderlecht 1976–77 : Hamburger SV 1977–78 : Anderlecht 1978–79 : Barcelona 1979–80 : Valencia 1980s 1980–81 : Dinamo Tbilisi 1981–82 : Barcelona 1982–83 : Aberdeen 1983–84 : Juventus 1984–85 : Everton 1985–86 : Dynamo Kyiv 1986–87 : Ajax 1987–88 : Mechelen 1988–89 : Barcelona 1989–90 : Sampdoria 1990s 1990–91 : Manchester United 1991–92 : Werder Bremen 1992–93 : Parma 1993–94 : Arsenal 1994–95 : Zaragoza 1995–96 : Paris Saint-Germain 1996–97 : Barcelona 1997–98 : Chelsea 1998–99 : Lazio v t e UEFA Super Cup winners UCL vs. CWC 1973 : Ajax 1975 : Dynamo Kyiv 1976 : Anderlecht 1977 : Liverpool 1978 : Anderlecht 1979 : Nottingham Forest 1980 : Valencia 1982 : Aston Villa 1983 : Aberdeen 1984 : Juventus 1986 : Steaua București 1987 : Porto 1988 : Mechelen 1989 : Milan 1990 : Milan 1991 : Manchester United 1992 : Barcelona 1993 : Parma 1994 : Milan 1995 : Ajax 1996 : Juventus 1997 : Barcelona 1998 : Chelsea 1999 : Lazio UCL vs. UEL 2000 : Galatasaray 2001 : Liverpool 2002 : Real Madrid 2003 : Milan 2004 : Valencia 2005 : Liverpool 2006 : Sevilla 2007 : Milan 2008 : Zenit St. Petersburg 2009 : Barcelona 2010 : Atlético Madrid 2011 : Barcelona 2012 : Atlético Madrid 2013 : Bayern Munich 2014 : Real Madrid 2015 : Barcelona 2016 : Real Madrid 2017 : Real Madrid 2018 : Atlético Madrid 2019 : Liverpool 2020 : Bayern Munich 2021 : Chelsea 2022 : Real Madrid 2023 : Manchester City 2024 : Real Madrid Winning managers v t e FIFA Club World Cup winners 2000s 2000 : Corinthians 2001 : Cancelled 2005 : São Paulo 2006 : Internacional 2007 : AC Milan 2008 : Manchester United 2009 : Barcelona 2010s 2010 : Inter Milan 2011 : Barcelona 2012 : Corinthians 2013 : Bayern Munich 2014 : Real Madrid 2015 : Barcelona 2016 : Real Madrid 2017 : Real Madrid 2018 : Real Madrid 2019 : Liverpool 2020s 2020 : Bayern Munich 2021 : Chelsea 2022 : Real Madrid 2023 : Manchester City v t e Premier League Seasons 1992–93 1993–94 1994–95 1995–96 1996–97 1997–98 1998–99 1999–2000 2000–01 2001–02 2002–03 2003–04 2004–05 2005–06 2006–07 2007–08 2008–09 2009–10 2010–11 2011–12 2012–13 2013–14 2014–15 2015–16 2016–17 2017–18 2018–19 2019–20 2020–21 2021–22 2022–23 2023–24 2024–25 2025–26 2026–27 Clubs 2025–26 Arsenal Aston Villa Bournemouth Brentford Brighton & Hove Albion Burnley Chelsea Crystal Palace Everton Fulham Leeds United Liverpool Manchester City Manchester United Newcastle United Nottingham Forest Sunderland Tottenham Hotspur West Ham United Wolverhampton Wanderers Former Barnsley Birmingham City Blackburn Rovers Blackpool Bolton Wanderers Bradford City Cardiff City Charlton Athletic Coventry City Derby County Huddersfield Town Hull City Ipswich Town Leicester City Luton Town Middlesbrough Norwich City Oldham Athletic Portsmouth Queens Park Rangers Reading Sheffield United Sheffield Wednesday Southampton Stoke City Swansea City Swindon Town Watford West Bromwich Albion Wigan Athletic Wimbledon (defunct) Competition Teams winners performance record Big Six Players foreign foreign scorers winners Managers current Stadiums Founding Broadcasters overseas in the U.S. Productions Referees Statistics and awards Records All-time table Hat-tricks Highest scores Golden Boot Golden Glove Manager of the Season Player of the Season Young Player of the Season Playmaker of the Season Goal of the Season Save of the Season Game Changer of the Season Most Powerful Goal Manager of the Month Player of the Month Goal of the Month Save of the Month Players with 100+ goals Players with 500+ appearances Top scorers by season Goalkeepers with 100+ clean sheets Goalkeepers who have scored a goal 10 Seasons Awards 20 Seasons Awards Hall of Fame Finances Richest clubs: Deloitte list Forbes list Team owners Transfer records Game 39 Premier League–Football League gulf Parachute and solidarity payments Associated competitions Fantasy Premier League Asia Trophy FA Community Shield FA Cup EFL Cup UEFA Champions League UEFA Europa League UEFA Conference League Premier League 2 Premier League Cup Premier Reserve League (defunct) U18 Premier League Premier League International Cup Summer Series Related media Fever Pitch: The Rise of the Premier League Category v t e Football in London League teams (tiers 1–4) 1 Arsenal Brentford Chelsea Crystal Palace Fulham Tottenham Hotspur West Ham United 2 Leyton Orient Millwall 3 Bromley Sutton United Queens Park Rangers 4 AFC Wimbledon Charlton Athletic Non-league teams (tiers 5–8) 5 Wealdstone 6 Barnet Dagenham & Redbridge Enfield Town Hampton & Richmond Borough Hornchurch 7 Carshalton Athletic Cray Valley Paper Mills Cray Wanderers Dulwich Hamlet Hanwell Town Hendon Welling United Wingate & Finchley 8 AFC Croydon Athletic Beckenham Town Erith Town Hadley Hanworth Villa Haringey Borough Harrow Borough Hayes & Yeading United Kingstonian Northwood Phoenix Sports Rayners Lane Raynes Park Vale Redbridge Sutton Common Rovers Uxbridge Walthamstow Rivalries London derbies Arsenal–Chelsea Chelsea–Tottenham Millwall–West Ham North South East West Cup competitions London Senior Cup London Intermediate Cup London Junior Cup London Charity Cup (defunct) London Challenge Cup (defunct) See also The Football Combination London Football Association London XI London League (defunct) West London League (defunct) v t e Founding members of the European Club Association Ajax Anderlecht Barcelona Bayern Munich Birkirkara Chelsea Copenhagen Dinamo Zagreb Juventus Lyon Manchester United AC Milan Olympiacos Porto Rangers Real Madrid v t e BlueCo Founded in 2022 Shareholders Todd Boehly Clearlake Capital Mark Walter Hansjörg Wyss Men's teams Chelsea F.C. ( Premier League ) RC Strasbourg Alsace ( Ligue 1 ) Academy Chelsea F.C. Development Squad and Academy RC Strasbourg Alsace Academy Women's teams Chelsea F.C. Women ( Women's Super League ) RC Strasbourg Alsace Women ( Première Ligue ) Stadiums and grounds Stamford Bridge (operator) Kingsmeadow Cobham Training Centre Stade de la Meinau (operator) Portals : Association football English football London Authority control databases International ISNI 2 VIAF National Germany United States Czech Republic Israel Artists MusicBrainz People Trove

______________________________________________________________________

### Independent websites

Independent websites [ edit ] Chelsea F.C. on BBC Sport : Club news – Recent results and fixtures Chelsea at Sky Sports Chelsea FC at Premier League Chelsea FC at UEFA v t e Chelsea Football Club Managers Men Women Seasons Men Women Current season Men Women Teams Men Development Squad and Academy Women History 1905–1952 1952–1983 1983–2003 2003–2022 2022–present Records and statistics International records Home stadium Stamford Bridge Chelsea Pitch Owners Other grounds Cobham Training Centre Kingsmeadow (Women and Academy) Honours Men Development Squad and Academy Women Players Men 100+ appearances 25–99 appearances 1–24 appearances Player of the Season Academy graduates Women Wartime guest players Rivalries League record by opponent West London derby Arsenal rivalry Tottenham rivalry Leeds United rivalry Liverpool rivalry Notable matches Men Women Supporters Chelsea Headhunters Ownership BlueCo Affiliated teams RC Strasbourg Alsace Media Chelsea TV The Great Game Football Icon Chants " The Liquidator " " Carefree " Singles " Blue is the Colour " (1972) " No One Can Stop Us Now " (1994) " Blue Day " (1997) " Blue Tomorrow " (2000) Category:Chelsea F.C. Category:Chelsea F.C. Women Links to related articles v t e Chelsea F.C. – current squad 1 Sánchez 3 Cucurella 4 Tosin 5 Badiashile 6 Colwill 7 Neto 8 Enzo 10 Mudryk 11 Madueke 12 Jörgensen 13 Bettinelli 15 Jackson 18 Nkunku 19 Sancho 20 Palmer 22 Dewsbury-Hall 23 Chalobah 24 James ( c ) 25 Caicedo 27 Gusto 29 Fofana 30 Anselmino 32 George 34 Acheampong 37 Kellyman 38 Guiu 39 Amougou 45 Lavia 47 Bergström Estêvão Manager: Maresca v t e Chelsea F.C. matches National FA Cup Finals 1915 1967 1970 1994 1997 2000 2002 2007 2009 2010 2012 2017 2018 2020 2021 2022 Knockout Chelsea 2–4 Bradford City (2015) EFL Cup finals 1965 1972 1998 2005 2007 2008 2015 2019 2022 2024 FA Community Shield 1955 1970 1997 2000 2005 2006 2007 2009 2010 2012 2015 2017 2018 Full Members' Cup finals 1986 1990 Football League play-off finals 1988 Second Division Continental UEFA Champions League finals 2008 2012 2021 UEFA Cup Winners' Cup finals 1971 1998 UEFA Europa League finals 2013 2019 UEFA Conference League final 2025 UEFA Super Cup 1998 2012 2013 2019 2021 International FIFA Club World Cup finals 2012 2021 Non-official Exhibition matches 1937 Paris Exhibition Football League War Cup finals 1944 1945 (south) 1945 (play-off) MLS All-Star Game 2006 2012 v t e Chelsea F.C. seasons 1905–06 1906–07 1907–08 1908–09 1909–10 1910–11 1911–12 1912–13 1913–14 1914–15 1915–16 1916–17 1917–18 1918–19 1919–20 1920–21 1921–22 1922–23 1923–24 1924–25 1925–26 1926–27 1927–28 1928–29 1929–30 1930–31 1931–32 1932–33 1933–34 1934–35 1935–36 1936–37 1937–38 1938–39 1939–40 1940–41 1941–42 1942–43 1943–44 1944–45 1945–46 1946–47 1947–48 1948–49 1949–50 1950–51 1951–52 1952–53 1953–54 1954–55 1955–56 1956–57 1957–58 1958–59 1959–60 1960–61 1961–62 1962–63 1963–64 1964–65 1965–66 1966–67 1967–68 1968–69 1969–70 1970–71 1971–72 1972–73 1973–74 1974–75 1975–76 1976–77 1977–78 1978–79 1979–80 1980–81 1981–82 1982–83 1983–84 1984–85 1985–86 1986–87 1987–88 1988–89 1989–90 1990–91 1991–92 1992–93 1993–94 1994–95 1995–96 1996–97 1997–98 1998–99 1999–2000 2000–01 2001–02 2002–03 2003–04 2004–05 2005–06 2006–07 2007–08 2008–09 2009–10 2010–11 2011–12 2012–13 2013–14 2014–15 2015–16 2016–17 2017–18 2018–19 2019–20 2020–21 2021–22 2022–23 2023–24 2024–25 2025–26 v t e Chelsea F.C. – managers Robertson p ( 1905 –06) Lewis i ( 1906 –07) Calderhead ( 1907 –33) Knighton ( 1933 –39) Birrell ( 1939 –52) Drake ( 1952 –61) Docherty ( 1961 –67) Suart c ( 1967 ) Sexton ( 1967 –74) Suart i ( 1974 –75) McCreadie ( 1975 –77) Shellito ( 1977 –78) Blanchflower ( 1978 –79) Hurst ( 1979 –81) Gould c ( 1981 ) Neal ( 1981 –85) Hollins ( 1985 –88) Campbell ( 1988 –91) Porterfield ( 1991 –93) Webb i ( 1993 ) Hoddle p ( 1993 –96) Gullit p ( 1996 –98) Vialli p ( 1998 –2000) Rix c ( 2000 ) Ranieri ( 2000 –04) Mourinho ( 2004 –07) Grant ( 2007 –08) Scolari ( 2008 –09) Wilkins c ( 2009 ) Hiddink i ( 2009 ) Ancelotti ( 2009 –11) Villas-Boas ( 2011 –12) Di Matteo ( 2012 ) Benítez i ( 2012 –13) Mourinho ( 2013 –15) Holland c ( 2015 ) Hiddink i ( 2015 –16) Conte ( 2016 –18) Sarri ( 2018 –19) Lampard ( 2019 –21) Tuchel ( 2021 –22) Potter ( 2022 –23) Bruno c ( 2023 ) Lampard i ( 2023 ) Pochettino ( 2023 –24) Maresca ( 2024 –) (c) = caretaker manager ; (i) = interim; (p) = player-manager v t e Chelsea F.C. – Player of the Season 1967: Bonetti 1968: Cooke 1969: Webb 1970: Hollins 1971: Hollins 1972: Webb 1973: Osgood 1974: Locke 1975: Cooke 1976: Wilkins 1977: Wilkins 1978: Droy 1979: Langley 1980: Walker 1981: Borota 1982: Fillery 1983: Jones 1984: Nevin 1985: Speedie 1986: Niedzwiecki 1987: Nevin 1988: Dorigo 1989: Roberts 1990: Monkou 1991: Townsend 1992: Elliott 1993: Sinclair 1994: Clarke 1995: Johnsen 1996: Gullit 1997: Hughes 1998: Wise 1999: Zola 2000: Wise 2001: Terry 2002: Cudicini 2003: Zola 2004: Lampard 2005: Lampard 2006: Terry 2007: Essien 2008: J. Cole 2009: Lampard 2010: Drogba 2011: Čech 2012: Mata 2013: Mata 2014: Hazard 2015: Hazard 2016: Willian 2017: Hazard 2018: Kanté 2019: Hazard 2020: Kovačić 2021: Mount 2022: Mount 2023: Silva 2024: Palmer 2025: Caicedo v t e Chelsea F.C. – chairpersons Kirby (1905–35) Pratt Snr. (1935–36) Crisp (1936–40) J. Mears (1940–66) Pratt Jnr. (1966–68) Withey (1968–69) B. Mears (1969–81) Viscount Chelsea (1981–82) Bates (1982–2004) Buck (2004–22) Boehly (2022–) v t e Hit singles recorded by Chelsea Football Club " Blue is the Colour " (1972) " No One Can Stop Us Now " (1994) " Blue Day " (1997) " Blue Tomorrow " (2000) See also: All UK hit singles by footballers v t e European Cup and UEFA Champions League winners European Cup era, 1955–1992 1950s 1955–56 : Real Madrid 1956–57 : Real Madrid 1957–58 : Real Madrid 1958–59 : Real Madrid 1959–60 : Real Madrid 1960s 1960–61 : Benfica 1961–62 : Benfica 1962–63 : Milan 1963–64 : Inter Milan 1964–65 : Inter Milan 1965–66 : Real Madrid 1966–67 : Celtic 1967–68 : Manchester United 1968–69 : Milan 1969–70 : Feyenoord 1970s 1970–71 : Ajax 1971–72 : Ajax 1972–73 : Ajax 1973–74 : Bayern Munich 1974–75 : Bayern Munich 1975–76 : Bayern Munich 1976–77 : Liverpool 1977–78 : Liverpool 1978–79 : Nottingham Forest 1979–80 : Nottingham Forest 1980s 1980–81 : Liverpool 1981–82 : Aston Villa 1982–83 : Hamburger SV 1983–84 : Liverpool 1984–85 : Juventus 1985–86 : Steaua București 1986–87 : Porto 1987–88 : PSV 1988–89 : Milan 1989–90 : Milan 1990s 1990–91 : Red Star Belgrade 1991–92 : Barcelona UEFA Champions League era, 1992–present 1990s 1992–93 : Marseille 1993–94 : Milan 1994–95 : Ajax 1995–96 : Juventus 1996–97 : Borussia Dortmund 1997–98 : Real Madrid 1998–99 : Manchester United 1999–2000 : Real Madrid 2000s 2000–01 : Bayern Munich 2001–02 : Real Madrid 2002–03 : Milan 2003–04 : Porto 2004–05 : Liverpool 2005–06 : Barcelona 2006–07 : Milan 2007–08 : Manchester United 2008–09 : Barcelona 2009–10 : Inter Milan 2010s 2010–11 : Barcelona 2011–12 : Chelsea 2012–13 : Bayern Munich 2013–14 : Real Madrid 2014–15 : Barcelona 2015–16 : Real Madrid 2016–17 : Real Madrid 2017–18 : Real Madrid 2018–19 : Liverpool 2019–20 : Bayern Munich 2020s 2020–21 : Chelsea 2021–22 : Real Madrid 2022–23 : Manchester City 2023–24 : Real Madrid 2024–25 : Paris Saint-Germain Finals Winning managers v t e UEFA Cup and UEFA Europa League winners UEFA Cup era, 1971–2009 1970s 1971–72 : Tottenham Hotspur 1972–73 : Liverpool 1973–74 : Feyenoord 1974–75 : Borussia Mönchengladbach 1975–76 : Liverpool 1976–77 : Juventus 1977–78 : PSV Eindhoven 1978–79 : Borussia Mönchengladbach 1979–80 : Eintracht Frankfurt 1980s 1980–81 : Ipswich Town 1981–82 : IFK Göteborg 1982–83 : Anderlecht 1983–84 : Tottenham Hotspur 1984–85 : Real Madrid 1985–86 : Real Madrid 1986–87 : IFK Göteborg 1987–88 : Bayer Leverkusen 1988–89 : Napoli 1989–90 : Juventus 1990s 1990–91 : Internazionale 1991–92 : Ajax 1992–93 : Juventus 1993–94 : Internazionale 1994–95 : Parma 1995–96 : Bayern Munich 1996–97 : Schalke 04 1997–98 : Internazionale 1998–99 : Parma 1999–2000 : Galatasaray 2000s 2000–01 : Liverpool 2001–02 : Feyenoord 2002–03 : Porto 2003–04 : Valencia 2004–05 : CSKA Moscow 2005–06 : Sevilla 2006–07 : Sevilla 2007–08 : Zenit Saint Petersburg 2008–09 : Shakhtar Donetsk UEFA Europa League era, 2009–present 2000s 2009–10 : Atlético Madrid 2010s 2010–11 : Porto 2011–12 : Atlético Madrid 2012–13 : Chelsea 2013–14 : Sevilla 2014–15 : Sevilla 2015–16 : Sevilla 2016–17 : Manchester United 2017–18 : Atlético Madrid 2018–19 : Chelsea 2019–20 : Sevilla 2020s 2020–21 : Villarreal 2021–22 : Eintracht Frankfurt 2022–23 : Sevilla 2023–24 : Atalanta 2024–25 : Tottenham Hotspur Finals Winning managers v t e UEFA Conference League winners 2020s 2021–22 : Roma 2022–23 : West Ham United 2023–24 : Olympiacos 2024–25 : Chelsea v t e UEFA Cup Winners' Cup winners 1960s 1960–61 : Fiorentina 1961–62 : Atlético Madrid 1962–63 : Tottenham Hotspur 1963–64 : Sporting CP 1964–65 : West Ham United 1965–66 : Borussia Dortmund 1966–67 : Bayern Munich 1967–68 : AC Milan 1968–69 : Slovan Bratislava 1969–70 : Manchester City 1970s 1970–71 : Chelsea 1971–72 : Rangers 1972–73 : AC Milan 1973–74 : 1. FC Magdeburg 1974–75 : Dynamo Kyiv 1975–76 : Anderlecht 1976–77 : Hamburger SV 1977–78 : Anderlecht 1978–79 : Barcelona 1979–80 : Valencia 1980s 1980–81 : Dinamo Tbilisi 1981–82 : Barcelona 1982–83 : Aberdeen 1983–84 : Juventus 1984–85 : Everton 1985–86 : Dynamo Kyiv 1986–87 : Ajax 1987–88 : Mechelen 1988–89 : Barcelona 1989–90 : Sampdoria 1990s 1990–91 : Manchester United 1991–92 : Werder Bremen 1992–93 : Parma 1993–94 : Arsenal 1994–95 : Zaragoza 1995–96 : Paris Saint-Germain 1996–97 : Barcelona 1997–98 : Chelsea 1998–99 : Lazio v t e UEFA Super Cup winners UCL vs. CWC 1973 : Ajax 1975 : Dynamo Kyiv 1976 : Anderlecht 1977 : Liverpool 1978 : Anderlecht 1979 : Nottingham Forest 1980 : Valencia 1982 : Aston Villa 1983 : Aberdeen 1984 : Juventus 1986 : Steaua București 1987 : Porto 1988 : Mechelen 1989 : Milan 1990 : Milan 1991 : Manchester United 1992 : Barcelona 1993 : Parma 1994 : Milan 1995 : Ajax 1996 : Juventus 1997 : Barcelona 1998 : Chelsea 1999 : Lazio UCL vs. UEL 2000 : Galatasaray 2001 : Liverpool 2002 : Real Madrid 2003 : Milan 2004 : Valencia 2005 : Liverpool 2006 : Sevilla 2007 : Milan 2008 : Zenit St. Petersburg 2009 : Barcelona 2010 : Atlético Madrid 2011 : Barcelona 2012 : Atlético Madrid 2013 : Bayern Munich 2014 : Real Madrid 2015 : Barcelona 2016 : Real Madrid 2017 : Real Madrid 2018 : Atlético Madrid 2019 : Liverpool 2020 : Bayern Munich 2021 : Chelsea 2022 : Real Madrid 2023 : Manchester City 2024 : Real Madrid Winning managers v t e FIFA Club World Cup winners 2000s 2000 : Corinthians 2001 : Cancelled 2005 : São Paulo 2006 : Internacional 2007 : AC Milan 2008 : Manchester United 2009 : Barcelona 2010s 2010 : Inter Milan 2011 : Barcelona 2012 : Corinthians 2013 : Bayern Munich 2014 : Real Madrid 2015 : Barcelona 2016 : Real Madrid 2017 : Real Madrid 2018 : Real Madrid 2019 : Liverpool 2020s 2020 : Bayern Munich 2021 : Chelsea 2022 : Real Madrid 2023 : Manchester City v t e Premier League Seasons 1992–93 1993–94 1994–95 1995–96 1996–97 1997–98 1998–99 1999–2000 2000–01 2001–02 2002–03 2003–04 2004–05 2005–06 2006–07 2007–08 2008–09 2009–10 2010–11 2011–12 2012–13 2013–14 2014–15 2015–16 2016–17 2017–18 2018–19 2019–20 2020–21 2021–22 2022–23 2023–24 2024–25 2025–26 2026–27 Clubs 2025–26 Arsenal Aston Villa Bournemouth Brentford Brighton & Hove Albion Burnley Chelsea Crystal Palace Everton Fulham Leeds United Liverpool Manchester City Manchester United Newcastle United Nottingham Forest Sunderland Tottenham Hotspur West Ham United Wolverhampton Wanderers Former Barnsley Birmingham City Blackburn Rovers Blackpool Bolton Wanderers Bradford City Cardiff City Charlton Athletic Coventry City Derby County Huddersfield Town Hull City Ipswich Town Leicester City Luton Town Middlesbrough Norwich City Oldham Athletic Portsmouth Queens Park Rangers Reading Sheffield United Sheffield Wednesday Southampton Stoke City Swansea City Swindon Town Watford West Bromwich Albion Wigan Athletic Wimbledon (defunct) Competition Teams winners performance record Big Six Players foreign foreign scorers winners Managers current Stadiums Founding Broadcasters overseas in the U.S. Productions Referees Statistics and awards Records All-time table Hat-tricks Highest scores Golden Boot Golden Glove Manager of the Season Player of the Season Young Player of the Season Playmaker of the Season Goal of the Season Save of the Season Game Changer of the Season Most Powerful Goal Manager of the Month Player of the Month Goal of the Month Save of the Month Players with 100+ goals Players with 500+ appearances Top scorers by season Goalkeepers with 100+ clean sheets Goalkeepers who have scored a goal 10 Seasons Awards 20 Seasons Awards Hall of Fame Finances Richest clubs: Deloitte list Forbes list Team owners Transfer records Game 39 Premier League–Football League gulf Parachute and solidarity payments Associated competitions Fantasy Premier League Asia Trophy FA Community Shield FA Cup EFL Cup UEFA Champions League UEFA Europa League UEFA Conference League Premier League 2 Premier League Cup Premier Reserve League (defunct) U18 Premier League Premier League International Cup Summer Series Related media Fever Pitch: The Rise of the Premier League Category v t e Football in London League teams (tiers 1–4) 1 Arsenal Brentford Chelsea Crystal Palace Fulham Tottenham Hotspur West Ham United 2 Leyton Orient Millwall 3 Bromley Sutton United Queens Park Rangers 4 AFC Wimbledon Charlton Athletic Non-league teams (tiers 5–8) 5 Wealdstone 6 Barnet Dagenham & Redbridge Enfield Town Hampton & Richmond Borough Hornchurch 7 Carshalton Athletic Cray Valley Paper Mills Cray Wanderers Dulwich Hamlet Hanwell Town Hendon Welling United Wingate & Finchley 8 AFC Croydon Athletic Beckenham Town Erith Town Hadley Hanworth Villa Haringey Borough Harrow Borough Hayes & Yeading United Kingstonian Northwood Phoenix Sports Rayners Lane Raynes Park Vale Redbridge Sutton Common Rovers Uxbridge Walthamstow Rivalries London derbies Arsenal–Chelsea Chelsea–Tottenham Millwall–West Ham North South East West Cup competitions London Senior Cup London Intermediate Cup London Junior Cup London Charity Cup (defunct) London Challenge Cup (defunct) See also The Football Combination London Football Association London XI London League (defunct) West London League (defunct) v t e Founding members of the European Club Association Ajax Anderlecht Barcelona Bayern Munich Birkirkara Chelsea Copenhagen Dinamo Zagreb Juventus Lyon Manchester United AC Milan Olympiacos Porto Rangers Real Madrid v t e BlueCo Founded in 2022 Shareholders Todd Boehly Clearlake Capital Mark Walter Hansjörg Wyss Men's teams Chelsea F.C. ( Premier League ) RC Strasbourg Alsace ( Ligue 1 ) Academy Chelsea F.C. Development Squad and Academy RC Strasbourg Alsace Academy Women's teams Chelsea F.C. Women ( Women's Super League ) RC Strasbourg Alsace Women ( Première Ligue ) Stadiums and grounds Stamford Bridge (operator) Kingsmeadow Cobham Training Centre Stade de la Meinau (operator) Portals : Association football English football London Authority control databases International ISNI 2 VIAF National Germany United States Czech Republic Israel Artists MusicBrainz People Trove

______________________________________________________________________
