# WIKIPEDIA ARTICLE: Manchester_City_F.C.

## TABLE OF CONTENTS

1 History
1.1 Early years and first trophies
1.2 First golden era and subsequent decline
1.3 Recovery and two takeovers
1.4 Second golden era and arrival of Pep Guardiola
1.5 League history
2 Club badge and colours
2.1 Kit suppliers and shirt sponsors
2.2 Kit deals
3 Players
3.1 First-team squad
3.2 EDS and Academy
3.3 Out on loan
3.4 Retired numbers
3.5 Club captains
3.6 Player of the Year
4 Halls of Fame
4.1 Manchester City Hall of Fame
4.2 National Football Museum Hall of Fame
4.3 Premier League Hall of Fame
4.4 Scottish Football Museum Hall of Fame
4.5 Welsh Sports Hall of Fame
5 Non-playing staff
5.1 Executive
5.2 Coaching
5.3 Notable managers
6 Supporters
7 Rivalries
8 Ownership and finances
8.1 City Football Group
8.1.1 CFG ownership
8.1.2 Partner clubs
9 Stadium
10 Honours
10.1 Doubles and Trebles
11 Club records
12 See also
13 Notes
14 Bibliography
15 References
16 External links

# FULL CONTENT

## History

History [ edit ] Main article: History of Manchester City F.C. Early years and first trophies [ edit ] St. Marks (Gorton) in 1884 – the reason for the cross pattée on the shirts is now unknown. City gained their first honours by winning the Second Division in 1899 ; with it came promotion to the highest level in English football, the First Division . They went on to claim their first major honour on 23 April 1904 , beating Bolton Wanderers 1–0 at Crystal Palace to win the FA Cup ; the Blues narrowly missed out on a League and Cup double that season after finishing runners-up in the league campaign , but they still became the first club in Manchester to win a major honour. In the seasons following the FA Cup triumph, the club was dogged by allegations of financial irregularities, culminating in the suspension of seventeen players in 1906, including captain Billy Meredith , who subsequently moved across town to Manchester United . A fire at Hyde Road destroyed the main stand in 1920, and in 1923 the club moved to their new purpose-built stadium at Maine Road in Moss Side . The Manchester City team which won the FA Cup in 1903–04 . In the 1930s, Manchester City reached two consecutive FA Cup finals, losing to Everton in 1933 , before claiming the Cup by beating Portsmouth in 1934 . During the 1934 run, the club broke the record for the highest home attendance of any club in English football history, as 84,569 fans packed Maine Road for a sixth-round FA Cup tie against Stoke City – a record which stood until 2016. The club won the First Division title for the first time in 1937, but were relegated the following season, despite scoring more goals than any other team in the division. Twenty years later, a City team inspired by a tactical system known as the Revie Plan reached consecutive FA Cup finals again, in 1955 and 1956 ; just as in the 1930s, they lost the first one, to Newcastle United , and won the second. The 1956 final, in which the Blues defeated Birmingham City 3–1, saw City goalkeeper Bert Trautmann continuing to play on after unknowingly breaking his neck. First golden era and subsequent decline [ edit ] After being relegated to the Second Division in 1963 , the future looked bleak with a record low home attendance of 8,015 against Swindon Town in January 1965. In the summer of 1965, the management team of Joe Mercer and Malcolm Allison was appointed. In the first season under Mercer, Manchester City won the Second Division title and made important signings in Mike Summerbee and Colin Bell . Two seasons later, in 1967–68 , City claimed the league championship for the second time, beating their close neighbours Manchester United to the title on the final day of the season with a 4–3 victory at Newcastle United. Further trophies followed: City won the FA Cup in 1969 and a year later triumphed in the European Cup Winners' Cup , defeating Górnik Zabrze 2–1 in the 1970 final . This was the club's only European honour until their triumph in the 2022–23 UEFA Champions League . The Blues also won the League Cup that year, becoming the second English team to win a European trophy and a domestic trophy in the same season. The club continued to challenge for honours throughout the 1970s, finishing one point behind the league champions on two occasions and reaching the final of the 1974 League Cup . One of the matches from this period that is most fondly remembered by supporters of Manchester City is the final match of the 1973–74 season against arch-rivals Manchester United, who needed to win to have any hope of avoiding relegation. Former United player Denis Law scored with a backheel to give City a 1–0 win at Old Trafford and confirm the relegation of their rivals. The final trophy of the club's most successful period of the 20th century was won in 1976, when Newcastle United were beaten 2–1 in the League Cup final . Chart of yearly table positions of City in the Football League A long period of decline followed the success of the 1960s and 1970s. Malcolm Allison rejoined the club to become manager for the second time in 1979, but squandered large sums of money on several unsuccessful signings, such as Steve Daley . A succession of managers then followed – seven in the 1980s alone. Under John Bond , City reached the 1981 FA Cup final but lost in a replay to Tottenham Hotspur . The club were twice relegated from the top flight in the 1980s (in 1983 and 1987 ), but returned to the top flight again in 1989 under Mel Machin . Howard Kendall guided the club to top flight safety in 1990 and the club finished fifth in 1991 and 1992 under the management of active player Peter Reid . However, this was only a temporary respite, and following Reid's departure Manchester City's fortunes continued to fade. City were co-founders of the Premier League upon its creation in 1992 , but after finishing ninth in its first season, Peter Swales , club chairman since 1973, was replaced by club legend Francis Lee in February 1994 in a movement supported by fans. Despite this, they endured three years of struggle under Brian Horton and Alan Ball Jr. before being relegated in dramatic fashion in 1996 . After two seasons in the First Division and four different permanent managers, Lee resigned from his role as chairman midway through the 1998 season, although remained as a shareholder, as City fell to the lowest point in their history, becoming the second ever European trophy winners to be relegated to their country's third-tier league after 1. FC Magdeburg of Germany. Recovery and two takeovers [ edit ] After relegation, the club underwent off-the-field upheaval, with new chairman David Bernstein introducing greater fiscal discipline. Under manager Joe Royle , City were promoted at the first attempt, achieved in dramatic fashion in the Second Division play-off final against Gillingham . A second successive promotion saw City return to the top division, but this proved to have been a step too far for the recovering club, and in 2001 City were relegated once more. Kevin Keegan replaced Royle as manager in the close season, and achieved an immediate return to the top division as the club won the 2001–02 First Division championship , breaking club records for the number of points gained and goals scored in a single season in the process. The 2002–03 season was the last at Maine Road and included a 3–1 derby victory over rivals Manchester United, ending a 13-year run without a derby win. Additionally, City qualified for European competition for the first time in 25 years via UEFA fair play ranking . In the close 2003–04 season , the club moved to the new City of Manchester Stadium . The first four seasons at the stadium all resulted in mid-table finishes. Former England manager Sven-Göran Eriksson became the club's first foreign manager when appointed in 2007 . After a bright start, performances faded in the second half of the season, and Eriksson was sacked on 2 June 2008; he was replaced by Mark Hughes two days later. By 2008, Manchester City were in a financially precarious position. Thaksin Shinawatra had taken control of the club the year before, but his political travails saw his assets frozen. Then, in August 2008, City were purchased by the Abu Dhabi United Group . The takeover was immediately followed by a flurry of bids for high-profile players; the club broke the British transfer record by signing Brazilian international Robinho from Real Madrid for £32.5 million (€42.5 million). There was not a huge improvement in performance compared to the previous season despite the influx of money however, with the team finishing tenth , although they did well to reach the quarter-finals of the UEFA Cup . During the summer of 2009, the club took transfer spending to an unprecedented level, with an outlay of over £100 million on players Gareth Barry , Roque Santa Cruz , Kolo Touré , Emmanuel Adebayor , Carlos Tevez , and Joleon Lescott . In December 2009, Mark Hughes – who had been hired shortly before the change in ownership but was originally retained by the new board – was replaced as manager by Roberto Mancini . City finished the season in fifth position in the Premier League , narrowly missing out on a place in the Champions League but qualifying for the UEFA Europa League . Second golden era and arrival of Pep Guardiola [ edit ] Continued investment in players followed in successive seasons, and results began to match the upturn in player quality. After heavy speculation, Roberto Mancini confirmed that a move of Edin Džeko from Wolfsburg for a fee of £27 million (€32 million) had been agreed on 3 January 2011. This was City's second highest transfer figure, after Robinho's move from Real Madrid for £32.5 million in 2008. The transfer fee was the sixth highest in Premier League history at the time. City reached the FA Cup final in 2011, their first major final in over 30 years, after defeating derby rivals Manchester United in the semi-finals, the first time they had knocked their rival out of a cup competition since 1975. The Blues defeated Stoke City 1–0 in the final, securing their fifth FA Cup and the club's first major trophy since winning the 1976 League Cup. On the last day of the 2010–11 season , City beat out Arsenal for the third place, thereby securing qualification directly into the Champions League group stage. Manchester City supporters invade the pitch following their 2011–12 Premier League title victory. Strong performances continued to follow in the 2011–12 season , including a 5–1 victory over Tottenham at White Hart Lane and a record-equalling 6–1 win over Manchester United at Old Trafford , but a poor run of form in the second half of the season left City in second place, eight points behind United with only six games left to play. At this point, United suffered their own loss of form, dropping eight points in the space of four games, while City began a run of successive wins which saw both teams level on points with two games to go. Despite the Blues only needing a home win against Queens Park Rangers , a team in the relegation zone, they fell 1–2 behind by the end of normal time. However, two goals in injury time – the second by Sergio Agüero in the fourth added minute – settled the title in City's favour, making them the first team to win the Premier League on goal difference alone. The following season , City were unable to replicate the previous year's success. After finishing second in the league , eleven points behind Manchester United, and losing the FA Cup final 0–1 to relegated Wigan Athletic , Mancini was sacked. He was replaced by Chilean manager Manuel Pellegrini . In Pellegrini's first year in charge, City won the League Cup and regained the Premier League title on the last matchday of the season. The team's league form then slowly declined over the next couple of years, as the Blues finished second in 2014–15 and then dropped to fourth in 2015–16 , although the 2015–16 season would see City win another League Cup title and reach the Champions League semi-finals for the first time. Manchester City moved into their new complex at the Etihad Campus adjacent to the City of Manchester Stadium in 2014. Pep Guardiola , former head coach of Barcelona and Bayern Munich , was confirmed to become Manchester City's new manager on 1 February 2016, with the announcement having been made several months before Manuel Pellegrini left his position. Guardiola's first season in Manchester would end trophyless, with the Blues placing third in the league standings, but the following season proved far more successful, as City won the Premier League title with the highest points total in history and broke numerous other club and English league records along the way. This would prove to be the start of a period of unprecedented success for Manchester City under Guardiola. Between the 2017–18 and 2023–24 Premier League seasons, City won six out of possible seven league titles, only finishing second behind Liverpool in the 2019–20 season . Guardiola also guided the Blues to silverware in domestic cup competitions, highlighted by four consecutive League Cup triumphs in 2018– 2021 . During the 2018–19 season , City completed an unprecedented domestic treble of English men's titles. Apart from winning all three of the major English football tournaments, they also won the Community Shield , the first time any team has ever held all four of England's primary football trophies at the same time. On the continental stage, the club achieved breakthrough in 2020–21 , reaching their first-ever Champions League final . In an all-English affair, City lost 0–1 to Chelsea at the Estádio do Dragão in Porto . The Manchester City team, with mascots , about to face Southampton in the 2022–23 Premier League . From left to right on back row: Moonchester, Manuel Akanji , Nathan Aké , Ederson , Rodri , Rúben Dias , Phil Foden , Kevin De Bruyne , João Cancelo , Riyad Mahrez , Bernardo Silva , Erling Haaland , and Moonbeam. The 2022–23 season turned out to be the greatest in the club's history, as Manchester City won their third consecutive Premier League title, the FA Cup final against rivals Manchester United, and their maiden Champions League title at the Atatürk Olympic Stadium in Istanbul against Inter Milan , thereby assembling a rare feat – the continental treble . The road to the Champions League victory included wins over European giants Bayern Munich, who were defeated 4–1 on aggregate, and Real Madrid, who suffered a 1–5 aggregate loss at the hands of City. The following season saw considerably less success for the Blues, as they won the UEFA Super Cup and FIFA Club World Cup for the first time and became the first English men's club to win four consecutive league titles. City also advanced to the FA Cup final for the second straight year but lost in a rematch to rivals Manchester United. Manchester City's era of sustained competitive excellence coincided with charges of breaching Financial Fair Play (FFP) regulations. In 2020, the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS) ruled that sanctions placed on the club by UEFA were not justified, overturning City's two-year European ban. In 2023, the Premier League announced its own investigation of the allegations levied against Manchester City, charging the club with 115 breaches of its FFP rules up to the 2017–18 season. League history [ edit ] 1892–1899 Division 2 (L2) 1899–1902 Division 1 (L1) 1902–1903 Division 2 (L2) 1903–1909 Division 1 (L1) 1909–1910 Division 2 (L2) 1910–1926 Division 1 (L1) 1926–1928 Division 2 (L2) 1928–1938 Division 1 (L1) 1938–1947 Division 2 (L2) 1947–1950 Division 1 (L1) 1950–1951 Division 2 (L2) 1951–1963 Division 1 (L1) 1963–1966 Division 2 (L2) 1966–1983 Division 1 (L1) 1983–1985 Division 2 (L2) 1985–1987 Division 1 (L1) 1987–1989 Division 2 (L2) 1989–1992 Division 1 (L1) 1992–1996 Premier League (L1) 1996–1998 Division 1 (L2) 1998–1999 Division 2 (L3) 1999–2000 Division 1 (L2) 2000–2001 Premier League (L1) 2001–2002 Division 1 (L2) 2002– Premier League (L1) L1 = Level 1 of the football league system; L2 = Level 2 of the football league system; L3 = Level 3 of the football league system. ^ "Club History – The Club – Manchester City FC" . mancity.com. Archived from the original on 7 September 2016 . Retrieved 9 September 2010 . ^ James, Manchester City – The Complete Record , p32 ^ James, Manchester:The Greatest City , pp 59–65. ^ Bevan, Chris (11 May 2003). "Maine Road through the ages" . BBC Sport. Archived from the original on 7 September 2017 . Retrieved 10 September 2011 . ^ Ward, The Manchester City Story , pp. 31–33 ^ James, Gary (22 April 2011). "FA Cup special: Thrills, spills and a cast of thousands at Maine Road" . menmedia.co.uk. Archived from the original on 12 November 2012 . Retrieved 23 April 2011 . ^ McNulty, Phil (2 November 2016). "Spurs' Wembley curse strikes again" . BBC Sport . Archived from the original on 26 October 2020 . Retrieved 13 June 2020 . ^ "England 1937/38" . league table from RSSSF . Archived from the original on 28 December 2016 . Retrieved 29 December 2005 . ^ Rowlands, Trautmann – The Biography , pp. 178–184 ^ Ward, The Manchester City Story , p. 57 ^ Penney, Manchester City – The Mercer-Allison Years , pp. 27–36 ^ Penney, Manchester City – The Mercer-Allison Years , pp. 37–56 ^ Gardner, The Manchester City Football Book No. 2 , pp. 13–22 ^ James, Manchester City – The Complete Record , pp. 410–420 ^ Other results meant United would have been relegated even if they had won or drawn, but neither team knew this at the time. ^ Ward, The Manchester City Story , p. 70 ^ Tossell, Big Mal , Chapter 18 ^ James, Manchester City – The Complete Record , p. 68 ^ Buckley, Andy; Burgess, Richard (2000). Blue Moon Rising: The Fall and Rise of Manchester City . Bury: Milo. ISBN 0-9530847-4-4 . p. 177 ^ Richard Foster (1 June 2023). "When Manchester City escaped the third tier – as United won the treble" . The Guardian . Archived from the original on 2 June 2023 . Retrieved 2 June 2023 . ^ Manchester City – The Complete Record, p. 265 ^ "Goater double gives City derby win" . RTÉ . Archived from the original on 19 December 2007 . Retrieved 28 May 2007 . ^ "Eriksson named Man City manager" . BBC Sport. 6 July 2007. Archived from the original on 9 July 2007 . Retrieved 20 July 2007 . ^ "Eriksson's reign at Man City ends" . BBC Sport. 2 June 2008. Archived from the original on 12 January 2016 . Retrieved 2 June 2008 . ^ "Manchester City appoint Mark Hughes" . Manchester City F.C. 4 June 2008. Archived from the original on 20 April 2017 . Retrieved 21 October 2009 . ^ Winrow, Ian (12 August 2008). "Thaksin Shinawatra's crisis ends Manchester City's European dream" . Daily Telegraph . London. Archived from the original on 10 January 2022 . Retrieved 4 September 2010 . ^ "Man City beat Chelsea to Robinho" . BBC. 1 September 2008. Archived from the original on 2 July 2018 . Retrieved 19 September 2009 . ^ "Lescott completes Man City move" . BBC Sport. 25 August 2009. Archived from the original on 12 January 2016 . Retrieved 12 September 2009 . ^ "Mark Hughes sacked as Man City appoint Mancini manager" . BBC Sport. 19 December 2009. Archived from the original on 13 January 2016 . Retrieved 19 December 2009 . ^ "2009/10 Season Review" . Premier League. 25 May 2018. Archived from the original on 8 October 2019 . Retrieved 7 October 2019 . ^ "Sjaji, sjaji dijamantu!" . Sarajevo-x.com. 15 January 2011. Archived from the original on 3 November 2011 . Retrieved 16 January 2011 . ^ "Džeko nadmašio Gomeza" . SportSport.ba. 9 January 2011. Archived from the original on 12 January 2011 . Retrieved 10 January 2011 . ^ "Man City 1 – 0 Man Utd" . BBC Sport. 16 April 2011. Archived from the original on 12 January 2016 . Retrieved 11 May 2011 . ^ "City slickers clinch third place" . Sky Sports. 22 May 2011. Archived from the original on 8 October 2019 . Retrieved 7 October 2019 . ^ "Premier League explained" . Premier League . 2022 . Retrieved 27 September 2023 . ^ "FA Cup final: Manchester City 0-1 Wigan Athletic" . BBC Sport . 11 May 2013. Archived from the original on 24 October 2018 . Retrieved 20 November 2019 . ^ "Roberto Mancini: Manchester City sack manager" . BBC Sport. 14 May 2013. Archived from the original on 2 May 2021 . Retrieved 19 April 2017 . ^ "Manuel Pellegrini: Manchester City appoint Chilean as manager" . BBC Sport. 12 June 2013. Archived from the original on 16 October 2013 . Retrieved 7 October 2013 . ^ O'Rourke, Pete (2 March 2014). "Capital One Cup final: Manchester City win Capital One Cup after beating Sunderland 3–1" . Sky Sports News . Archived from the original on 29 August 2014 . Retrieved 11 May 2014 . ^ "Manchester City crowned Premier League champions with 2–0 victory over West Ham" . Sky Sports . 11 May 2014. Archived from the original on 28 April 2015 . Retrieved 11 May 2014 . ^ Steinberg, Jacob (23 November 2018). "Manuel Pellegrini stands tall despite looming shadow of Pep Guardiola" . The Guardian . Archived from the original on 28 January 2019 . Retrieved 21 May 2019 . ^ Jackson, Jamie (1 February 2016). "Manchester City to give Pep Guardiola £150m to spend on players" . The Guardian . Archived from the original on 15 October 2022 . Retrieved 15 October 2022 . ^ "Manchester City 2016/17 Premier League season review" . Sky Sports . 21 May 2017 . Retrieved 26 September 2023 . ^ "Which records have Man City broken in 2017/18?" . premierleague.com . Archived from the original on 22 May 2020 . Retrieved 21 May 2019 . ^ "Man City win third successive Premier League title" . BBC Sport . 20 May 2023 . Retrieved 20 May 2023 . ^ "Man City beat Spurs to lift Carabao Cup" . BBC Sport . Retrieved 25 April 2021 . ^ Bullin, Matt (18 May 2019). "Man City win treble – how impressive is that achievement?" . Archived from the original on 18 May 2019 . Retrieved 21 May 2019 . ^ "Man City 2018/19 season review: Good things come in threes" . 14 May 2019. ^ "Man City reach first Champions League final" . BBC Sport . Archived from the original on 5 May 2021 . Retrieved 12 August 2021 . ^ UEFA.com (29 May 2021). "Man. City 0-1 Chelsea: Havertz gives Blues second Champions League triumph" . UEFA . Archived from the original on 30 May 2021 . Retrieved 12 August 2021 . ^ Rory Smith (19 April 2023). "At Manchester City, an Elusive Prize Comes Back Into Focus" . The New York Times . Retrieved 19 April 2023 . ^ Rory Smith (17 May 2023). "With Stakes at Their Highest, Manchester City Rises Higher Still" . The New York Times . Retrieved 20 May 2023 . ^ "Man City win Champions League: Rodri goal secures victory against Inter and completes treble" . BBC Sport . 10 June 2023. Archived from the original on 11 June 2023 . Retrieved 10 June 2023 . ^ "Man City win Champions League: Rodri goal secures victory against Inter and completes treble" . UEFA . 10 June 2023 . Retrieved 10 June 2023 . ^ "Manchester City win record fourth English title in a row as Foden scores twice in 3-1 win over West Ham" . BBC Sport . 19 May 2024 . Retrieved 19 May 2024 . ^ "Man City's ban from European football overturned - CAS" . Reuters . 13 July 2020 . Retrieved 26 September 2023 . ^ "Man City Premier League charges explained: What are they? What could punishment be? What's the timescale?" . Sky Sports . 10 June 2023 . Retrieved 26 September 2023 . ^ "Premier League statement" . Premier League . 6 February 2023 . Retrieved 16 December 2024 . Cite error: There are <ref group=lower-alpha> tags or {{efn}} templates on this page, but the references will not show without a {{reflist|group=lower-alpha}} template or {{notelist}} template (see the help page ).

______________________________________________________________________

### Early years and first trophies

Early years and first trophies [ edit ] St. Marks (Gorton) in 1884 – the reason for the cross pattée on the shirts is now unknown. City gained their first honours by winning the Second Division in 1899 ; with it came promotion to the highest level in English football, the First Division . They went on to claim their first major honour on 23 April 1904 , beating Bolton Wanderers 1–0 at Crystal Palace to win the FA Cup ; the Blues narrowly missed out on a League and Cup double that season after finishing runners-up in the league campaign , but they still became the first club in Manchester to win a major honour. In the seasons following the FA Cup triumph, the club was dogged by allegations of financial irregularities, culminating in the suspension of seventeen players in 1906, including captain Billy Meredith , who subsequently moved across town to Manchester United . A fire at Hyde Road destroyed the main stand in 1920, and in 1923 the club moved to their new purpose-built stadium at Maine Road in Moss Side . The Manchester City team which won the FA Cup in 1903–04 . In the 1930s, Manchester City reached two consecutive FA Cup finals, losing to Everton in 1933 , before claiming the Cup by beating Portsmouth in 1934 . During the 1934 run, the club broke the record for the highest home attendance of any club in English football history, as 84,569 fans packed Maine Road for a sixth-round FA Cup tie against Stoke City – a record which stood until 2016. The club won the First Division title for the first time in 1937, but were relegated the following season, despite scoring more goals than any other team in the division. Twenty years later, a City team inspired by a tactical system known as the Revie Plan reached consecutive FA Cup finals again, in 1955 and 1956 ; just as in the 1930s, they lost the first one, to Newcastle United , and won the second. The 1956 final, in which the Blues defeated Birmingham City 3–1, saw City goalkeeper Bert Trautmann continuing to play on after unknowingly breaking his neck. ^ "Club History – The Club – Manchester City FC" . mancity.com. Archived from the original on 7 September 2016 . Retrieved 9 September 2010 . ^ James, Manchester City – The Complete Record , p32 ^ James, Manchester:The Greatest City , pp 59–65. ^ Bevan, Chris (11 May 2003). "Maine Road through the ages" . BBC Sport. Archived from the original on 7 September 2017 . Retrieved 10 September 2011 . ^ Ward, The Manchester City Story , pp. 31–33 ^ James, Gary (22 April 2011). "FA Cup special: Thrills, spills and a cast of thousands at Maine Road" . menmedia.co.uk. Archived from the original on 12 November 2012 . Retrieved 23 April 2011 . ^ McNulty, Phil (2 November 2016). "Spurs' Wembley curse strikes again" . BBC Sport . Archived from the original on 26 October 2020 . Retrieved 13 June 2020 . ^ "England 1937/38" . league table from RSSSF . Archived from the original on 28 December 2016 . Retrieved 29 December 2005 . ^ Rowlands, Trautmann – The Biography , pp. 178–184

______________________________________________________________________

### First golden era and subsequent decline

First golden era and subsequent decline [ edit ] After being relegated to the Second Division in 1963 , the future looked bleak with a record low home attendance of 8,015 against Swindon Town in January 1965. In the summer of 1965, the management team of Joe Mercer and Malcolm Allison was appointed. In the first season under Mercer, Manchester City won the Second Division title and made important signings in Mike Summerbee and Colin Bell . Two seasons later, in 1967–68 , City claimed the league championship for the second time, beating their close neighbours Manchester United to the title on the final day of the season with a 4–3 victory at Newcastle United. Further trophies followed: City won the FA Cup in 1969 and a year later triumphed in the European Cup Winners' Cup , defeating Górnik Zabrze 2–1 in the 1970 final . This was the club's only European honour until their triumph in the 2022–23 UEFA Champions League . The Blues also won the League Cup that year, becoming the second English team to win a European trophy and a domestic trophy in the same season. The club continued to challenge for honours throughout the 1970s, finishing one point behind the league champions on two occasions and reaching the final of the 1974 League Cup . One of the matches from this period that is most fondly remembered by supporters of Manchester City is the final match of the 1973–74 season against arch-rivals Manchester United, who needed to win to have any hope of avoiding relegation. Former United player Denis Law scored with a backheel to give City a 1–0 win at Old Trafford and confirm the relegation of their rivals. The final trophy of the club's most successful period of the 20th century was won in 1976, when Newcastle United were beaten 2–1 in the League Cup final . Chart of yearly table positions of City in the Football League A long period of decline followed the success of the 1960s and 1970s. Malcolm Allison rejoined the club to become manager for the second time in 1979, but squandered large sums of money on several unsuccessful signings, such as Steve Daley . A succession of managers then followed – seven in the 1980s alone. Under John Bond , City reached the 1981 FA Cup final but lost in a replay to Tottenham Hotspur . The club were twice relegated from the top flight in the 1980s (in 1983 and 1987 ), but returned to the top flight again in 1989 under Mel Machin . Howard Kendall guided the club to top flight safety in 1990 and the club finished fifth in 1991 and 1992 under the management of active player Peter Reid . However, this was only a temporary respite, and following Reid's departure Manchester City's fortunes continued to fade. City were co-founders of the Premier League upon its creation in 1992 , but after finishing ninth in its first season, Peter Swales , club chairman since 1973, was replaced by club legend Francis Lee in February 1994 in a movement supported by fans. Despite this, they endured three years of struggle under Brian Horton and Alan Ball Jr. before being relegated in dramatic fashion in 1996 . After two seasons in the First Division and four different permanent managers, Lee resigned from his role as chairman midway through the 1998 season, although remained as a shareholder, as City fell to the lowest point in their history, becoming the second ever European trophy winners to be relegated to their country's third-tier league after 1. FC Magdeburg of Germany. ^ Ward, The Manchester City Story , p. 57 ^ Penney, Manchester City – The Mercer-Allison Years , pp. 27–36 ^ Penney, Manchester City – The Mercer-Allison Years , pp. 37–56 ^ Gardner, The Manchester City Football Book No. 2 , pp. 13–22 ^ James, Manchester City – The Complete Record , pp. 410–420 ^ Other results meant United would have been relegated even if they had won or drawn, but neither team knew this at the time. ^ Ward, The Manchester City Story , p. 70 ^ Tossell, Big Mal , Chapter 18 ^ James, Manchester City – The Complete Record , p. 68 Cite error: There are <ref group=lower-alpha> tags or {{efn}} templates on this page, but the references will not show without a {{reflist|group=lower-alpha}} template or {{notelist}} template (see the help page ).

______________________________________________________________________

### Recovery and two takeovers

Recovery and two takeovers [ edit ] After relegation, the club underwent off-the-field upheaval, with new chairman David Bernstein introducing greater fiscal discipline. Under manager Joe Royle , City were promoted at the first attempt, achieved in dramatic fashion in the Second Division play-off final against Gillingham . A second successive promotion saw City return to the top division, but this proved to have been a step too far for the recovering club, and in 2001 City were relegated once more. Kevin Keegan replaced Royle as manager in the close season, and achieved an immediate return to the top division as the club won the 2001–02 First Division championship , breaking club records for the number of points gained and goals scored in a single season in the process. The 2002–03 season was the last at Maine Road and included a 3–1 derby victory over rivals Manchester United, ending a 13-year run without a derby win. Additionally, City qualified for European competition for the first time in 25 years via UEFA fair play ranking . In the close 2003–04 season , the club moved to the new City of Manchester Stadium . The first four seasons at the stadium all resulted in mid-table finishes. Former England manager Sven-Göran Eriksson became the club's first foreign manager when appointed in 2007 . After a bright start, performances faded in the second half of the season, and Eriksson was sacked on 2 June 2008; he was replaced by Mark Hughes two days later. By 2008, Manchester City were in a financially precarious position. Thaksin Shinawatra had taken control of the club the year before, but his political travails saw his assets frozen. Then, in August 2008, City were purchased by the Abu Dhabi United Group . The takeover was immediately followed by a flurry of bids for high-profile players; the club broke the British transfer record by signing Brazilian international Robinho from Real Madrid for £32.5 million (€42.5 million). There was not a huge improvement in performance compared to the previous season despite the influx of money however, with the team finishing tenth , although they did well to reach the quarter-finals of the UEFA Cup . During the summer of 2009, the club took transfer spending to an unprecedented level, with an outlay of over £100 million on players Gareth Barry , Roque Santa Cruz , Kolo Touré , Emmanuel Adebayor , Carlos Tevez , and Joleon Lescott . In December 2009, Mark Hughes – who had been hired shortly before the change in ownership but was originally retained by the new board – was replaced as manager by Roberto Mancini . City finished the season in fifth position in the Premier League , narrowly missing out on a place in the Champions League but qualifying for the UEFA Europa League . ^ Buckley, Andy; Burgess, Richard (2000). Blue Moon Rising: The Fall and Rise of Manchester City . Bury: Milo. ISBN 0-9530847-4-4 . p. 177 ^ Richard Foster (1 June 2023). "When Manchester City escaped the third tier – as United won the treble" . The Guardian . Archived from the original on 2 June 2023 . Retrieved 2 June 2023 . ^ Manchester City – The Complete Record, p. 265 ^ "Goater double gives City derby win" . RTÉ . Archived from the original on 19 December 2007 . Retrieved 28 May 2007 . ^ "Eriksson named Man City manager" . BBC Sport. 6 July 2007. Archived from the original on 9 July 2007 . Retrieved 20 July 2007 . ^ "Eriksson's reign at Man City ends" . BBC Sport. 2 June 2008. Archived from the original on 12 January 2016 . Retrieved 2 June 2008 . ^ "Manchester City appoint Mark Hughes" . Manchester City F.C. 4 June 2008. Archived from the original on 20 April 2017 . Retrieved 21 October 2009 . ^ Winrow, Ian (12 August 2008). "Thaksin Shinawatra's crisis ends Manchester City's European dream" . Daily Telegraph . London. Archived from the original on 10 January 2022 . Retrieved 4 September 2010 . ^ "Man City beat Chelsea to Robinho" . BBC. 1 September 2008. Archived from the original on 2 July 2018 . Retrieved 19 September 2009 . ^ "Lescott completes Man City move" . BBC Sport. 25 August 2009. Archived from the original on 12 January 2016 . Retrieved 12 September 2009 . ^ "Mark Hughes sacked as Man City appoint Mancini manager" . BBC Sport. 19 December 2009. Archived from the original on 13 January 2016 . Retrieved 19 December 2009 . ^ "2009/10 Season Review" . Premier League. 25 May 2018. Archived from the original on 8 October 2019 . Retrieved 7 October 2019 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Second golden era and arrival of Pep Guardiola

Second golden era and arrival of Pep Guardiola [ edit ] Continued investment in players followed in successive seasons, and results began to match the upturn in player quality. After heavy speculation, Roberto Mancini confirmed that a move of Edin Džeko from Wolfsburg for a fee of £27 million (€32 million) had been agreed on 3 January 2011. This was City's second highest transfer figure, after Robinho's move from Real Madrid for £32.5 million in 2008. The transfer fee was the sixth highest in Premier League history at the time. City reached the FA Cup final in 2011, their first major final in over 30 years, after defeating derby rivals Manchester United in the semi-finals, the first time they had knocked their rival out of a cup competition since 1975. The Blues defeated Stoke City 1–0 in the final, securing their fifth FA Cup and the club's first major trophy since winning the 1976 League Cup. On the last day of the 2010–11 season , City beat out Arsenal for the third place, thereby securing qualification directly into the Champions League group stage. Manchester City supporters invade the pitch following their 2011–12 Premier League title victory. Strong performances continued to follow in the 2011–12 season , including a 5–1 victory over Tottenham at White Hart Lane and a record-equalling 6–1 win over Manchester United at Old Trafford , but a poor run of form in the second half of the season left City in second place, eight points behind United with only six games left to play. At this point, United suffered their own loss of form, dropping eight points in the space of four games, while City began a run of successive wins which saw both teams level on points with two games to go. Despite the Blues only needing a home win against Queens Park Rangers , a team in the relegation zone, they fell 1–2 behind by the end of normal time. However, two goals in injury time – the second by Sergio Agüero in the fourth added minute – settled the title in City's favour, making them the first team to win the Premier League on goal difference alone. The following season , City were unable to replicate the previous year's success. After finishing second in the league , eleven points behind Manchester United, and losing the FA Cup final 0–1 to relegated Wigan Athletic , Mancini was sacked. He was replaced by Chilean manager Manuel Pellegrini . In Pellegrini's first year in charge, City won the League Cup and regained the Premier League title on the last matchday of the season. The team's league form then slowly declined over the next couple of years, as the Blues finished second in 2014–15 and then dropped to fourth in 2015–16 , although the 2015–16 season would see City win another League Cup title and reach the Champions League semi-finals for the first time. Manchester City moved into their new complex at the Etihad Campus adjacent to the City of Manchester Stadium in 2014. Pep Guardiola , former head coach of Barcelona and Bayern Munich , was confirmed to become Manchester City's new manager on 1 February 2016, with the announcement having been made several months before Manuel Pellegrini left his position. Guardiola's first season in Manchester would end trophyless, with the Blues placing third in the league standings, but the following season proved far more successful, as City won the Premier League title with the highest points total in history and broke numerous other club and English league records along the way. This would prove to be the start of a period of unprecedented success for Manchester City under Guardiola. Between the 2017–18 and 2023–24 Premier League seasons, City won six out of possible seven league titles, only finishing second behind Liverpool in the 2019–20 season . Guardiola also guided the Blues to silverware in domestic cup competitions, highlighted by four consecutive League Cup triumphs in 2018– 2021 . During the 2018–19 season , City completed an unprecedented domestic treble of English men's titles. Apart from winning all three of the major English football tournaments, they also won the Community Shield , the first time any team has ever held all four of England's primary football trophies at the same time. On the continental stage, the club achieved breakthrough in 2020–21 , reaching their first-ever Champions League final . In an all-English affair, City lost 0–1 to Chelsea at the Estádio do Dragão in Porto . The Manchester City team, with mascots , about to face Southampton in the 2022–23 Premier League . From left to right on back row: Moonchester, Manuel Akanji , Nathan Aké , Ederson , Rodri , Rúben Dias , Phil Foden , Kevin De Bruyne , João Cancelo , Riyad Mahrez , Bernardo Silva , Erling Haaland , and Moonbeam. The 2022–23 season turned out to be the greatest in the club's history, as Manchester City won their third consecutive Premier League title, the FA Cup final against rivals Manchester United, and their maiden Champions League title at the Atatürk Olympic Stadium in Istanbul against Inter Milan , thereby assembling a rare feat – the continental treble . The road to the Champions League victory included wins over European giants Bayern Munich, who were defeated 4–1 on aggregate, and Real Madrid, who suffered a 1–5 aggregate loss at the hands of City. The following season saw considerably less success for the Blues, as they won the UEFA Super Cup and FIFA Club World Cup for the first time and became the first English men's club to win four consecutive league titles. City also advanced to the FA Cup final for the second straight year but lost in a rematch to rivals Manchester United. Manchester City's era of sustained competitive excellence coincided with charges of breaching Financial Fair Play (FFP) regulations. In 2020, the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS) ruled that sanctions placed on the club by UEFA were not justified, overturning City's two-year European ban. In 2023, the Premier League announced its own investigation of the allegations levied against Manchester City, charging the club with 115 breaches of its FFP rules up to the 2017–18 season. ^ "Sjaji, sjaji dijamantu!" . Sarajevo-x.com. 15 January 2011. Archived from the original on 3 November 2011 . Retrieved 16 January 2011 . ^ "Džeko nadmašio Gomeza" . SportSport.ba. 9 January 2011. Archived from the original on 12 January 2011 . Retrieved 10 January 2011 . ^ "Man City 1 – 0 Man Utd" . BBC Sport. 16 April 2011. Archived from the original on 12 January 2016 . Retrieved 11 May 2011 . ^ "City slickers clinch third place" . Sky Sports. 22 May 2011. Archived from the original on 8 October 2019 . Retrieved 7 October 2019 . ^ "Premier League explained" . Premier League . 2022 . Retrieved 27 September 2023 . ^ "FA Cup final: Manchester City 0-1 Wigan Athletic" . BBC Sport . 11 May 2013. Archived from the original on 24 October 2018 . Retrieved 20 November 2019 . ^ "Roberto Mancini: Manchester City sack manager" . BBC Sport. 14 May 2013. Archived from the original on 2 May 2021 . Retrieved 19 April 2017 . ^ "Manuel Pellegrini: Manchester City appoint Chilean as manager" . BBC Sport. 12 June 2013. Archived from the original on 16 October 2013 . Retrieved 7 October 2013 . ^ O'Rourke, Pete (2 March 2014). "Capital One Cup final: Manchester City win Capital One Cup after beating Sunderland 3–1" . Sky Sports News . Archived from the original on 29 August 2014 . Retrieved 11 May 2014 . ^ "Manchester City crowned Premier League champions with 2–0 victory over West Ham" . Sky Sports . 11 May 2014. Archived from the original on 28 April 2015 . Retrieved 11 May 2014 . ^ Steinberg, Jacob (23 November 2018). "Manuel Pellegrini stands tall despite looming shadow of Pep Guardiola" . The Guardian . Archived from the original on 28 January 2019 . Retrieved 21 May 2019 . ^ Jackson, Jamie (1 February 2016). "Manchester City to give Pep Guardiola £150m to spend on players" . The Guardian . Archived from the original on 15 October 2022 . Retrieved 15 October 2022 . ^ "Manchester City 2016/17 Premier League season review" . Sky Sports . 21 May 2017 . Retrieved 26 September 2023 . ^ "Which records have Man City broken in 2017/18?" . premierleague.com . Archived from the original on 22 May 2020 . Retrieved 21 May 2019 . ^ "Man City win third successive Premier League title" . BBC Sport . 20 May 2023 . Retrieved 20 May 2023 . ^ "Man City beat Spurs to lift Carabao Cup" . BBC Sport . Retrieved 25 April 2021 . ^ Bullin, Matt (18 May 2019). "Man City win treble – how impressive is that achievement?" . Archived from the original on 18 May 2019 . Retrieved 21 May 2019 . ^ "Man City 2018/19 season review: Good things come in threes" . 14 May 2019. ^ "Man City reach first Champions League final" . BBC Sport . Archived from the original on 5 May 2021 . Retrieved 12 August 2021 . ^ UEFA.com (29 May 2021). "Man. City 0-1 Chelsea: Havertz gives Blues second Champions League triumph" . UEFA . Archived from the original on 30 May 2021 . Retrieved 12 August 2021 . ^ Rory Smith (19 April 2023). "At Manchester City, an Elusive Prize Comes Back Into Focus" . The New York Times . Retrieved 19 April 2023 . ^ Rory Smith (17 May 2023). "With Stakes at Their Highest, Manchester City Rises Higher Still" . The New York Times . Retrieved 20 May 2023 . ^ "Man City win Champions League: Rodri goal secures victory against Inter and completes treble" . BBC Sport . 10 June 2023. Archived from the original on 11 June 2023 . Retrieved 10 June 2023 . ^ "Man City win Champions League: Rodri goal secures victory against Inter and completes treble" . UEFA . 10 June 2023 . Retrieved 10 June 2023 . ^ "Manchester City win record fourth English title in a row as Foden scores twice in 3-1 win over West Ham" . BBC Sport . 19 May 2024 . Retrieved 19 May 2024 . ^ "Man City's ban from European football overturned - CAS" . Reuters . 13 July 2020 . Retrieved 26 September 2023 . ^ "Man City Premier League charges explained: What are they? What could punishment be? What's the timescale?" . Sky Sports . 10 June 2023 . Retrieved 26 September 2023 . ^ "Premier League statement" . Premier League . 6 February 2023 . Retrieved 16 December 2024 .

______________________________________________________________________

### League history

League history [ edit ] 1892–1899 Division 2 (L2) 1899–1902 Division 1 (L1) 1902–1903 Division 2 (L2) 1903–1909 Division 1 (L1) 1909–1910 Division 2 (L2) 1910–1926 Division 1 (L1) 1926–1928 Division 2 (L2) 1928–1938 Division 1 (L1) 1938–1947 Division 2 (L2) 1947–1950 Division 1 (L1) 1950–1951 Division 2 (L2) 1951–1963 Division 1 (L1) 1963–1966 Division 2 (L2) 1966–1983 Division 1 (L1) 1983–1985 Division 2 (L2) 1985–1987 Division 1 (L1) 1987–1989 Division 2 (L2) 1989–1992 Division 1 (L1) 1992–1996 Premier League (L1) 1996–1998 Division 1 (L2) 1998–1999 Division 2 (L3) 1999–2000 Division 1 (L2) 2000–2001 Premier League (L1) 2001–2002 Division 1 (L2) 2002– Premier League (L1) L1 = Level 1 of the football league system; L2 = Level 2 of the football league system; L3 = Level 3 of the football league system.

______________________________________________________________________

## Club badge and colours

Club badge and colours [ edit ] Manchester City's stadium and shirt have been sponsored by Etihad Airways since 2009. Wikimedia Commons has media related to Manchester City F.C. kits Preview warning: Commons link does not match Wikidata – please check . Manchester City's home colours are sky blue and white. Traditional away kit colours have been either maroon or (from the 1960s) red and black; however, in recent years several colours have been used. The origins of the club's home colours are unclear, but there is evidence that the club has worn blue since 1892 or earlier. A booklet entitled Famous Football Clubs – Manchester City published in the 1940s indicates that West Gorton (St. Marks) originally played in scarlet and black, and reports dating from 1884 describe the team wearing black jerseys bearing a white cross, showing the club's origins as a church side. The infrequent yet recurrent use of red and black away colours comes from former assistant manager Malcolm Allison 's belief that adopting the colours of AC Milan would inspire City to glory. Allison's theory seemingly took effect, with City winning the 1969 FA Cup final , 1970 League Cup final , and 1970 Cup Winners' Cup final in red and black stripes as opposed to the club's home kit of sky blue. City had previously worn three other badges on their shirts, prior to their current badge being implemented in 2016. The first, introduced in 1970, was based on designs which had been used on official club documentation since the mid-1960s. It consisted of a circular badge which used the same shield as the present badge (including a ship, based on the City of Manchester coat of arms ), inside a circle bearing the name of the club. In 1972, this was replaced by a variation which replaced the lower half of the shield with the red rose of Lancashire. In 1976, a heraldic badge was granted by the College of Arms to the English Football League for use by City. The badge consisted of the familiar ship above a red rose but on a circular device instead of a shield (blazoned as " A roundel per fess azure and argent in chief a three masted ship sails set pennons flying or in base a rose gules barbed and seeded proper "). On occasions when Manchester City played in a major cup final, the club wore shirts bearing the City of Manchester coat of arms, as a symbol of pride in representing the city at a major event. This practice originated from a time when the players' shirts did not normally bear a badge of any kind. The club has since abandoned the practice; for the 2011 FA Cup final , its first in the 21st century, City used the usual badge with a special legend, but the Manchester coat of arms was included as a small monochrome logo in the numbers on the back of players' shirts. A new club badge was adopted in 1997, as a result of the previous badge being ineligible for registration as a trademark. This badge was based on the arms of the city of Manchester , and consisted of a shield in front of a golden eagle . The eagle is an old heraldic symbol of the city of Manchester; a golden eagle was added to the city's badge in 1958 (but had since been removed), representing the growing aviation industry. The shield featured a ship on its upper half representing the Manchester Ship Canal , and three diagonal stripes in the lower half symbolised the city's three rivers – the Irwell , the Irk and the Medlock . The bottom of the badge bore the motto " Superbia in Proelio ", which translates as "Pride in Battle" in Latin . Above the eagle and shield were the three stars, added for decorative purposes. On 15 October 2015, following years of criticism from the fans over the design of the 1997 badge, the club announced they intended to carry out a fan consultation on whether to discontinue the current badge and institute a new design. After the consultation, the club announced in late November 2015 the badge would be replaced in due course by a new version which would be designed in the style of the older, circular variants. A design purporting to be the new badge was unintentionally leaked two days early prior to the official unveiling on 26 December 2015 by the IPO when the design was trademarked on 22 December. The new badge was officially unveiled at Manchester City's home match against Sunderland on 26 December. Kit suppliers and shirt sponsors [ edit ] Period Kit supplier Shirt sponsor (chest) Shirt sponsor (sleeve) 1974–1982 Umbro No sponsor No sponsor 1982–1984 Saab 1984–1987 Philips 1987–1997 Brother 1997–1999 Kappa 1999–2002 Le Coq Sportif Eidos 2002–2003 First Advice 2003–2004 Reebok 2004–2007 Thomas Cook 2007–2009 Le Coq Sportif 2009–2013 Umbro Etihad Airways 2013–2017 Nike 2017–2019 Nexen Tire 2019–2023 Puma 2023–present OKX Kit deals [ edit ] Kit supplier Period Announcement date Intended contract duration Value Notes Le Coq Sportif 2007–2009 13 May 2007 2007–2011 (4 years) Around £ 2.5m per year Replaced by Umbro contract Umbro 2009–2013 4 June 2009 2009–2019 (10 years) Around £ 2.5m per year Umbro contract transferred to parent company Nike in 2013 Nike 2013–2019 4 May 2012 2013–2019 (6 years) Around £ 20m per year Puma 2019–2029 28 February 2019 2019–2029 (10 years) Around £ 65m per year ^ James, Gary (2002). Manchester: The Greatest City . Polar Publishing. ISBN 1-899538-09-7 . ^ Turner, Georgina (23 November 2005). "Nicking the shirts off their backs" . The Guardian . London. Archived from the original on 20 March 2008 . Retrieved 18 December 2006 . ^ Phillips, David Llewelyn (Spring 2015). "Badges and 'Crests': The Twentieth-Century Relationship Between Football and Heraldry" (PDF) . The Coat of Arms . XI Part I (229): 40,41,45,46. Archived (PDF) from the original on 24 December 2021 . Retrieved 31 January 2022 . ^ Clayton, David (2002). Everything Under the Blue Moon . Mainstream Publishing. ^ "Manchester City History" . Archived from the original on 19 May 2017 . Retrieved 19 April 2017 . ^ a b "City's new badge is here!" . ManCity.com . 2 July 2016. Archived from the original on 23 May 2020 . Retrieved 23 April 2020 . ^ "Manchester City to design new badge following consultation with fans" . The Guardian . 24 November 2015. Archived from the original on 7 July 2017 . Retrieved 19 April 2017 . ^ "Manchester City's new club badge design leaked online" . BBC News. 24 December 2015. Archived from the original on 3 February 2018 . Retrieved 24 December 2015 . ^ McVeigh, Niall (26 December 2015). "Manchester City unveil new club crest before home game against Sunderland" . The Guardian . Archived from the original on 27 December 2015 . Retrieved 26 December 2015 . ^ "Man city new Le Coq Sportif home & away kits 07/08" . footballshirtculture.com . 13 May 2007. Archived from the original on 29 December 2021 . Retrieved 29 December 2021 . ^ "City clinch record kit contract" . Manchester Evening News . 17 April 2010. Archived from the original on 29 December 2021 . Retrieved 29 December 2021 . ^ "Man City sign Umbro deal" . The Business Desk . 4 June 2009. Archived from the original on 1 October 2019 . Retrieved 1 October 2019 . ^ Ducker, James (28 February 2019). "Manchester City sign new 10-year kit deal with Puma worth £650 million" . The Telegraph . Archived from the original on 10 January 2022 – via www.telegraph.co.uk. ^ "Manchester City replaces Nike with Puma in kit deal" . BBC News . 28 February 2019. Archived from the original on 28 February 2019 . Retrieved 1 March 2019 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Kit suppliers and shirt sponsors

Kit suppliers and shirt sponsors [ edit ] Period Kit supplier Shirt sponsor (chest) Shirt sponsor (sleeve) 1974–1982 Umbro No sponsor No sponsor 1982–1984 Saab 1984–1987 Philips 1987–1997 Brother 1997–1999 Kappa 1999–2002 Le Coq Sportif Eidos 2002–2003 First Advice 2003–2004 Reebok 2004–2007 Thomas Cook 2007–2009 Le Coq Sportif 2009–2013 Umbro Etihad Airways 2013–2017 Nike 2017–2019 Nexen Tire 2019–2023 Puma 2023–present OKX

______________________________________________________________________

### Kit deals

Kit deals [ edit ] Kit supplier Period Announcement date Intended contract duration Value Notes Le Coq Sportif 2007–2009 13 May 2007 2007–2011 (4 years) Around £ 2.5m per year Replaced by Umbro contract Umbro 2009–2013 4 June 2009 2009–2019 (10 years) Around £ 2.5m per year Umbro contract transferred to parent company Nike in 2013 Nike 2013–2019 4 May 2012 2013–2019 (6 years) Around £ 20m per year Puma 2019–2029 28 February 2019 2019–2029 (10 years) Around £ 65m per year ^ "Man city new Le Coq Sportif home & away kits 07/08" . footballshirtculture.com . 13 May 2007. Archived from the original on 29 December 2021 . Retrieved 29 December 2021 . ^ "City clinch record kit contract" . Manchester Evening News . 17 April 2010. Archived from the original on 29 December 2021 . Retrieved 29 December 2021 . ^ "Man City sign Umbro deal" . The Business Desk . 4 June 2009. Archived from the original on 1 October 2019 . Retrieved 1 October 2019 . ^ Ducker, James (28 February 2019). "Manchester City sign new 10-year kit deal with Puma worth £650 million" . The Telegraph . Archived from the original on 10 January 2022 – via www.telegraph.co.uk. ^ "Manchester City replaces Nike with Puma in kit deal" . BBC News . 28 February 2019. Archived from the original on 28 February 2019 . Retrieved 1 March 2019 .

______________________________________________________________________

## Players

Players [ edit ] Main article: List of Manchester City F.C. players First-team squad [ edit ] As of 4 February 2025 Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules ; some limited exceptions apply. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. No. Pos. Nation Player 3 DF POR Rúben Dias 5 DF ENG John Stones 6 DF NED Nathan Aké 7 FW EGY Omar Marmoush 8 MF CRO Mateo Kovačić 9 FW NOR Erling Haaland 10 MF ENG Jack Grealish 11 MF BEL Jérémy Doku 14 MF ESP Nico González 16 MF ESP Rodri 17 MF BEL Kevin De Bruyne ( captain ) 18 GK GER Stefan Ortega 19 MF GER İlkay Gündoğan 20 MF POR Bernardo Silva No. Pos. Nation Player 22 DF BRA Vitor Reis 24 DF CRO Joško Gvardiol 25 DF SUI Manuel Akanji 26 MF BRA Savinho 27 MF POR Matheus Nunes 30 MF ARG Claudio Echeverri 31 GK BRA Ederson 33 GK ENG Scott Carson 45 DF UZB Abdukodir Khusanov 47 MF ENG Phil Foden 52 MF NOR Oscar Bobb 75 MF ENG Nico O'Reilly 82 DF ENG Rico Lewis 87 MF ENG James McAtee EDS and Academy [ edit ] Main article: Manchester City F.C. EDS and Academy The following players have previously made appearances or have appeared on the substitutes bench for the first team. Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules ; some limited exceptions apply. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. No. Pos. Nation Player 61 DF ENG Kaden Braithwaite 66 DF ENG Jahmai Simpson-Pusey 67 FW ENG Divin Mubama 68 DF ENG Max Alleyne No. Pos. Nation Player 69 GK WAL Max Hudson 80 GK ENG Spike Brits 85 FW GER Farid Alfa-Ruprecht Out on loan [ edit ] Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules ; some limited exceptions apply. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. No. Pos. Nation Player 2 DF ENG Kyle Walker (on loan at AC Milan until 30 June 2025) 4 MF ENG Kalvin Phillips (on loan at Ipswich Town until 30 June 2025) 32 MF ARG Máximo Perrone (on loan at Como until 30 June 2025) 37 FW BRA Kayky (on loan at Bahia until 30 June 2025) 39 DF BRA Yan Couto (on loan at Borussia Dortmund until 30 June 2025) 56 MF ENG Jacob Wright (on loan at Norwich City until 30 June 2025) 76 MF ESP Mahamadou Susoho (on loan at Peterborough United until 30 June 2025) No. Pos. Nation Player 78 DF BFA Issa Kaboré (on loan at Werder Bremen until 30 June 2025) 79 DF ENG Luke Mbete (on loan at Northampton Town until 30 June 2025) 88 GK ENG True Grant (on loan at Buxton until 30 June 2025) 94 DF ENG Finley Burns (on loan at Hull City until 30 June 2025) 97 DF ENG Josh Wilson-Esbrand (on loan at Stoke City until 30 June 2025) — DF SLE Juma Bah (on loan at Lens until 30 June 2025) Retired numbers [ edit ] See also: List of retired numbers in association football Since 2003, Manchester City have not issued the squad number 23. It was retired in memory of Marc-Vivien Foé , who was on loan to the club from Lyon at the time of his death on the field of play while playing for Cameroon in the 2003 FIFA Confederations Cup . Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules ; some limited exceptions apply. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. No. Pos. Nation Player 23 MF CMR Marc-Vivien Foé (2002–03 – posthumous honour) Club captains [ edit ] This is a list of City's official club captains , who are currently appointed via a vote of players and staff. Other players ( vice-captains ) have led the team on the pitch when the club captain is not playing or not available. Some players have been made captain on a one-off basis to celebrate or commemorate an event, e.g. Oleksandr Zinchenko captained the team in their 2021–22 FA Cup fifth round tie at Peterborough United in support of his country during the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine . Years Pos Captain 1904–1906 FW Billy Meredith 1906–1914 FW Lot Jones 1914–1919 No competitive football due to the First World War 1919–1923 DF Eli Fletcher 1923–1925 DF Max Woosnam 1926–1928 MF Charlie Pringle 1928–1932 MF Jimmy McMullan 1932–1935 DF Sam Cowan 1935–1936 MF Matt Busby 1937–1939 MF Les McDowall Years Pos Captain 1939–1946 No competitive football due to the Second World War 1946–1947 GK Frank Swift 1947–1950 DF Eric Westwood 1950–1957 DF Roy Paul 1957–1961 MF Ken Barnes 1961–1964 DF Bill Leivers 1965–1967 FW Johnny Crossan 1967–1974 DF Tony Book 1974–1975 MF Colin Bell 1975–1976 DF Mike Doyle Years Pos Captain 1976–1979 DF David Watson 1979–1986 DF/MF Paul Power 1986–1988 DF Kenny Clements 1988–1992 DF Steve Redmond 1992–1993 DF Terry Phelan 1993–1996 DF Keith Curle 1996–1998 DF Kit Symons 1998 MF Jamie Pollock 1998–2000 DF Andy Morrison 2000–2001 DF/MF Alfie Haaland Years Pos Captain 2001–2002 DF Stuart Pearce 2002–2003 MF Ali Benarbia 2003–2006 DF Sylvain Distin 2006–2009 DF Richard Dunne 2009–2010 DF Kolo Touré 2010–2011 FW Carlos Tevez 2011–2019 DF Vincent Kompany 2019–2020 MF David Silva 2020–2022 MF Fernandinho 2022–2023 MF İlkay Gündoğan Years Pos Captain 2023–2025 DF Kyle Walker 2025–present MF Kevin De Bruyne Player of the Year [ edit ] See also: List of Manchester City F.C. players § Player of the Year awards Each season since the end of the 1966–67 season , the members of the Manchester City Official Supporters Club have voted by ballot to choose the player on the team they feel is the most worthy of recognition for his performances during that season. The following table lists the recipients of this award since 2000. Year Winner 2000–01 Danny Tiatto 2001–02 Ali Benarbia 2002–03 Sylvain Distin 2003–04 Shaun Wright-Phillips 2004–05 Richard Dunne 2005–06 Richard Dunne 2006–07 Richard Dunne 2007–08 Richard Dunne 2008–09 Stephen Ireland 2009–10 Carlos Tevez Year Winner 2010–11 Vincent Kompany 2011–12 Sergio Agüero 2012–13 Pablo Zabaleta 2013–14 Yaya Touré 2014–15 Sergio Agüero 2015–16 Kevin De Bruyne 2016–17 David Silva 2017–18 Kevin De Bruyne 2018–19 Bernardo Silva 2019–20 Kevin De Bruyne Year Winner 2020–21 Rúben Dias 2021–22 Kevin De Bruyne 2022–23 Erling Haaland 2023–24 Phil Foden Sources: ^ "Squads: Men's team" . Manchester City F.C . Retrieved 21 January 2025 . ^ "Spotify" . Spotify . ^ "Man City retire number 23 shirt" . BBC Sport. 27 June 2003. Archived from the original on 12 January 2016 . Retrieved 22 July 2018 . ^ Killen, Stephen; Flintham, Jack (1 March 2022). "Pep Guardiola explains why Oleksandr Zinchenko captained Man City in FA Cup vs Peterborough" . Manchester Evening News . Retrieved 30 September 2023 . ^ "Interview: Andy Morrison, Scot who overcame alcoholism to lead Manchester City out of wilderness" . The Scotsman . 15 November 2018 . Retrieved 30 September 2023 . ^ Tallentire, Mark (10 August 2001). "Pearce handed City armband" . The Guardian . Retrieved 30 September 2023 . ^ "Benarbia named captain at Man City" . BBC Sport . 24 July 2002 . Retrieved 30 September 2023 . ^ "Magpies fail with £5m Distin bid" . BBC Sport . 7 January 2005 . Retrieved 30 September 2023 . ^ "Dunne named new Man City captain" . BBC Sport . 20 July 2006 . Retrieved 30 September 2023 . ^ Taylor, Daniel (19 September 2009). "Kolo Touré diplomatic but determined ahead of Manchester derby" . The Guardian . Retrieved 30 September 2023 . ^ Smith, Rory (11 December 2010). "Carlos Tevez transfer request: is the Argentine striker more trouble than he is worth?" . The Daily Telegraph . Retrieved 30 September 2023 . ^ Taylor, Daniel (9 September 2011). "Carlos Tevez stripped of Manchester City captaincy by Roberto Mancini" . The Guardian . Retrieved 30 September 2023 . ^ Fordham, Josh (9 August 2019). "Manchester City appoint David Silva as club captain for his final season at the Etihad" . Talksport . Retrieved 30 September 2023 . ^ Brennan, Stuart (20 September 2020). "Pep Guardiola reveals Fernandinho is new Man City captain" . Manchester Evening News . Retrieved 30 September 2023 . ^ Ballus, Pol (14 August 2022). "Manchester City players vote Ilkay Gundogan as new captain" . The Athletic . Retrieved 30 September 2023 . ^ Leigh, Neil (18 September 2023). "Walker 'honoured and privileged' to wear the City captain's armband" . Manchester City F.C . Retrieved 18 September 2023 . ^ Percival, Adam. "50 years of MCFC Player of the Year: Part 1" . www.mancity.com . Archived from the original on 18 June 2021 . Retrieved 21 April 2021 . ^ Clayton, David. "50 years of MCFC Player of the Year: Part 2" . www.mancity.com . Archived from the original on 18 June 2021 . Retrieved 21 April 2021 . ^ Clayton, David. "50 years of MCFC Player of the Year: Part 3" . www.mancity.com . Archived from the original on 18 June 2021 . Retrieved 21 April 2021 . ^ Clayton, David. "50 years of MCFC Player of the Year: Part 4" . www.mancity.com . Archived from the original on 22 December 2017 . Retrieved 21 April 2021 . ^ Pollard, Rob. "50 years of MCFC player of the year: Part 5" . www.mancity.com . Archived from the original on 2 December 2020 . Retrieved 21 April 2021 .

______________________________________________________________________

### First-team squad

First-team squad [ edit ] As of 4 February 2025 Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules ; some limited exceptions apply. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. No. Pos. Nation Player 3 DF POR Rúben Dias 5 DF ENG John Stones 6 DF NED Nathan Aké 7 FW EGY Omar Marmoush 8 MF CRO Mateo Kovačić 9 FW NOR Erling Haaland 10 MF ENG Jack Grealish 11 MF BEL Jérémy Doku 14 MF ESP Nico González 16 MF ESP Rodri 17 MF BEL Kevin De Bruyne ( captain ) 18 GK GER Stefan Ortega 19 MF GER İlkay Gündoğan 20 MF POR Bernardo Silva No. Pos. Nation Player 22 DF BRA Vitor Reis 24 DF CRO Joško Gvardiol 25 DF SUI Manuel Akanji 26 MF BRA Savinho 27 MF POR Matheus Nunes 30 MF ARG Claudio Echeverri 31 GK BRA Ederson 33 GK ENG Scott Carson 45 DF UZB Abdukodir Khusanov 47 MF ENG Phil Foden 52 MF NOR Oscar Bobb 75 MF ENG Nico O'Reilly 82 DF ENG Rico Lewis 87 MF ENG James McAtee ^ "Squads: Men's team" . Manchester City F.C . Retrieved 21 January 2025 .

______________________________________________________________________

### EDS and Academy

EDS and Academy [ edit ] Main article: Manchester City F.C. EDS and Academy The following players have previously made appearances or have appeared on the substitutes bench for the first team. Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules ; some limited exceptions apply. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. No. Pos. Nation Player 61 DF ENG Kaden Braithwaite 66 DF ENG Jahmai Simpson-Pusey 67 FW ENG Divin Mubama 68 DF ENG Max Alleyne No. Pos. Nation Player 69 GK WAL Max Hudson 80 GK ENG Spike Brits 85 FW GER Farid Alfa-Ruprecht

______________________________________________________________________

### Out on loan

Out on loan [ edit ] Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules ; some limited exceptions apply. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. No. Pos. Nation Player 2 DF ENG Kyle Walker (on loan at AC Milan until 30 June 2025) 4 MF ENG Kalvin Phillips (on loan at Ipswich Town until 30 June 2025) 32 MF ARG Máximo Perrone (on loan at Como until 30 June 2025) 37 FW BRA Kayky (on loan at Bahia until 30 June 2025) 39 DF BRA Yan Couto (on loan at Borussia Dortmund until 30 June 2025) 56 MF ENG Jacob Wright (on loan at Norwich City until 30 June 2025) 76 MF ESP Mahamadou Susoho (on loan at Peterborough United until 30 June 2025) No. Pos. Nation Player 78 DF BFA Issa Kaboré (on loan at Werder Bremen until 30 June 2025) 79 DF ENG Luke Mbete (on loan at Northampton Town until 30 June 2025) 88 GK ENG True Grant (on loan at Buxton until 30 June 2025) 94 DF ENG Finley Burns (on loan at Hull City until 30 June 2025) 97 DF ENG Josh Wilson-Esbrand (on loan at Stoke City until 30 June 2025) — DF SLE Juma Bah (on loan at Lens until 30 June 2025) ^ "Spotify" . Spotify .

______________________________________________________________________

### Retired numbers

Retired numbers [ edit ] See also: List of retired numbers in association football Since 2003, Manchester City have not issued the squad number 23. It was retired in memory of Marc-Vivien Foé , who was on loan to the club from Lyon at the time of his death on the field of play while playing for Cameroon in the 2003 FIFA Confederations Cup . Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules ; some limited exceptions apply. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. No. Pos. Nation Player 23 MF CMR Marc-Vivien Foé (2002–03 – posthumous honour) ^ "Man City retire number 23 shirt" . BBC Sport. 27 June 2003. Archived from the original on 12 January 2016 . Retrieved 22 July 2018 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Club captains

Club captains [ edit ] This is a list of City's official club captains , who are currently appointed via a vote of players and staff. Other players ( vice-captains ) have led the team on the pitch when the club captain is not playing or not available. Some players have been made captain on a one-off basis to celebrate or commemorate an event, e.g. Oleksandr Zinchenko captained the team in their 2021–22 FA Cup fifth round tie at Peterborough United in support of his country during the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine . Years Pos Captain 1904–1906 FW Billy Meredith 1906–1914 FW Lot Jones 1914–1919 No competitive football due to the First World War 1919–1923 DF Eli Fletcher 1923–1925 DF Max Woosnam 1926–1928 MF Charlie Pringle 1928–1932 MF Jimmy McMullan 1932–1935 DF Sam Cowan 1935–1936 MF Matt Busby 1937–1939 MF Les McDowall Years Pos Captain 1939–1946 No competitive football due to the Second World War 1946–1947 GK Frank Swift 1947–1950 DF Eric Westwood 1950–1957 DF Roy Paul 1957–1961 MF Ken Barnes 1961–1964 DF Bill Leivers 1965–1967 FW Johnny Crossan 1967–1974 DF Tony Book 1974–1975 MF Colin Bell 1975–1976 DF Mike Doyle Years Pos Captain 1976–1979 DF David Watson 1979–1986 DF/MF Paul Power 1986–1988 DF Kenny Clements 1988–1992 DF Steve Redmond 1992–1993 DF Terry Phelan 1993–1996 DF Keith Curle 1996–1998 DF Kit Symons 1998 MF Jamie Pollock 1998–2000 DF Andy Morrison 2000–2001 DF/MF Alfie Haaland Years Pos Captain 2001–2002 DF Stuart Pearce 2002–2003 MF Ali Benarbia 2003–2006 DF Sylvain Distin 2006–2009 DF Richard Dunne 2009–2010 DF Kolo Touré 2010–2011 FW Carlos Tevez 2011–2019 DF Vincent Kompany 2019–2020 MF David Silva 2020–2022 MF Fernandinho 2022–2023 MF İlkay Gündoğan Years Pos Captain 2023–2025 DF Kyle Walker 2025–present MF Kevin De Bruyne ^ Killen, Stephen; Flintham, Jack (1 March 2022). "Pep Guardiola explains why Oleksandr Zinchenko captained Man City in FA Cup vs Peterborough" . Manchester Evening News . Retrieved 30 September 2023 . ^ "Interview: Andy Morrison, Scot who overcame alcoholism to lead Manchester City out of wilderness" . The Scotsman . 15 November 2018 . Retrieved 30 September 2023 . ^ Tallentire, Mark (10 August 2001). "Pearce handed City armband" . The Guardian . Retrieved 30 September 2023 . ^ "Benarbia named captain at Man City" . BBC Sport . 24 July 2002 . Retrieved 30 September 2023 . ^ "Magpies fail with £5m Distin bid" . BBC Sport . 7 January 2005 . Retrieved 30 September 2023 . ^ "Dunne named new Man City captain" . BBC Sport . 20 July 2006 . Retrieved 30 September 2023 . ^ Taylor, Daniel (19 September 2009). "Kolo Touré diplomatic but determined ahead of Manchester derby" . The Guardian . Retrieved 30 September 2023 . ^ Smith, Rory (11 December 2010). "Carlos Tevez transfer request: is the Argentine striker more trouble than he is worth?" . The Daily Telegraph . Retrieved 30 September 2023 . ^ Taylor, Daniel (9 September 2011). "Carlos Tevez stripped of Manchester City captaincy by Roberto Mancini" . The Guardian . Retrieved 30 September 2023 . ^ Fordham, Josh (9 August 2019). "Manchester City appoint David Silva as club captain for his final season at the Etihad" . Talksport . Retrieved 30 September 2023 . ^ Brennan, Stuart (20 September 2020). "Pep Guardiola reveals Fernandinho is new Man City captain" . Manchester Evening News . Retrieved 30 September 2023 . ^ Ballus, Pol (14 August 2022). "Manchester City players vote Ilkay Gundogan as new captain" . The Athletic . Retrieved 30 September 2023 . ^ Leigh, Neil (18 September 2023). "Walker 'honoured and privileged' to wear the City captain's armband" . Manchester City F.C . Retrieved 18 September 2023 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Player of the Year

Player of the Year [ edit ] See also: List of Manchester City F.C. players § Player of the Year awards Each season since the end of the 1966–67 season , the members of the Manchester City Official Supporters Club have voted by ballot to choose the player on the team they feel is the most worthy of recognition for his performances during that season. The following table lists the recipients of this award since 2000. Year Winner 2000–01 Danny Tiatto 2001–02 Ali Benarbia 2002–03 Sylvain Distin 2003–04 Shaun Wright-Phillips 2004–05 Richard Dunne 2005–06 Richard Dunne 2006–07 Richard Dunne 2007–08 Richard Dunne 2008–09 Stephen Ireland 2009–10 Carlos Tevez Year Winner 2010–11 Vincent Kompany 2011–12 Sergio Agüero 2012–13 Pablo Zabaleta 2013–14 Yaya Touré 2014–15 Sergio Agüero 2015–16 Kevin De Bruyne 2016–17 David Silva 2017–18 Kevin De Bruyne 2018–19 Bernardo Silva 2019–20 Kevin De Bruyne Year Winner 2020–21 Rúben Dias 2021–22 Kevin De Bruyne 2022–23 Erling Haaland 2023–24 Phil Foden Sources: ^ Percival, Adam. "50 years of MCFC Player of the Year: Part 1" . www.mancity.com . Archived from the original on 18 June 2021 . Retrieved 21 April 2021 . ^ Clayton, David. "50 years of MCFC Player of the Year: Part 2" . www.mancity.com . Archived from the original on 18 June 2021 . Retrieved 21 April 2021 . ^ Clayton, David. "50 years of MCFC Player of the Year: Part 3" . www.mancity.com . Archived from the original on 18 June 2021 . Retrieved 21 April 2021 . ^ Clayton, David. "50 years of MCFC Player of the Year: Part 4" . www.mancity.com . Archived from the original on 22 December 2017 . Retrieved 21 April 2021 . ^ Pollard, Rob. "50 years of MCFC player of the year: Part 5" . www.mancity.com . Archived from the original on 2 December 2020 . Retrieved 21 April 2021 .

______________________________________________________________________

## Halls of Fame

Halls of Fame [ edit ] See also: List of Manchester City F.C. players Manchester City Hall of Fame [ edit ] The following former Manchester City players and managers have been inducted into the Manchester City F.C. Hall of Fame , and are listed according to the year of their induction: Inductees at the MCFC Hall of Fame Year of induction Player Position Role at MCFC Years in role at MCFC Notes Manchester City players who were the inaugural inductees in January 2004 2004 Billy Meredith FW ( outside right ) player 1894–1906, 1921–1924 also see NFM Hall of Fame Tommy Johnson FW ( centre forward ) & ( inside left ) player 1919–1930 Eric Brook FW ( outside left ) player 1928–1939 Frank Swift GK player 1933–1949 also see NFM Hall of Fame Peter Doherty FW ( inside left ) player 1936–1945 also see NFM Hall of Fame Roy Clarke FW ( outside left ) player 1947–1958 Lifetime achievement award Bert Trautmann , OBE GK player 1949–1964 also see NFM Hall of Fame Roy Paul MF ( half back ) player 1950–1957 Mike Summerbee FW / MF ( outside right ) player 1965–1975 also see NFM Hall of Fame Tony Book DF ( right back ) player manager 1966–1974 1973, 1974–1979, 1980, 1989, 1993 Colin Bell , MBE MF player 1966–1979 also see NFM Hall of Fame Francis Lee FW player chairman 1967–1974 1994–1998 also see NFM Hall of Fame Joe Corrigan GK player 1967–1983 Paul Lake FW / MF / DF player 1987–1996 Niall Quinn , (Honorary) MBE FW player 1990–1996 also see NFM Hall of Fame Manchester City players and teams inducted since 2004 2005 Sam Cowan DF ( centre half ) player manager 1924–1935 1946–1947 Ken Barnes MF ( wing half ) player 1950–1961 Lifetime achievement award Alan Oakes MF player 1958–1976 Joe Mercer , OBE MF ( left half ) manager 1965–1971 Outstanding achievement award also see NFM Hall of Fame Malcolm Allison DF ( centre half ) assistant mgr. manager 1965–1971 1971–1973, 1979–1980 Outstanding achievement award also see NFM Hall of Fame 2006 Ernie Toseland FW ( outside right ) player 1928–1938 Johnny Hart FW ( inside forward ) player manager 1947–1960 1973 Lifetime achievement award Manchester City 1955–56 FA Cup-winning team not applicable en masse induction Mike Doyle DF / MF player 1965–1978 Shaun Goater FW player 1998–2003 Cult hero award 2008 Fred Tilson FW ( centre forward ) player 1928–1939 Neil Young FW ( outside left ) & ( inside left ) player 1961–1972 Alex Williams , MBE GK player 1980–1986 Lifetime achievement award 2009 Uwe Rösler FW player 1994–1998 National Football Museum Hall of Fame [ edit ] The following former Manchester City players and managers have been inducted into the English Football Hall of Fame ( National Football Museum Hall of Fame ), and are listed according to the year of their induction within the various categories: Inductees at the NFM Hall of Fame Year of induction Player Position Role at MCFC Years in role at MCFC Players with Manchester City backgrounds inducted to date 2002 Peter Doherty inside left player 1936–1945 Denis Law , CBE forward & midfielder player 1960–1961 1973–1974 Kevin Keegan , OBE forward manager 2001–2005 2003 Peter Schmeichel , MBE goalkeeper player 2002–2003 Alan Ball , MBE attacking midfielder manager 1995–1996 2005 Bert Trautmann , OBE goalkeeper player 1949–1964 Colin Bell , MBE attacking midfielder player 1966–1979 2007 Billy Meredith right winger player 1894–1906 1921–1924 Peter Beardsley midfielder player 1998 Mark Hughes forward manager 2008–2009 2009 Frank Swift goalkeeper player 1933–1949 2010 Francis Lee , CBE forward player 1967–1974 2013 Mike Summerbee forward player 1965–1975 2014 Trevor Francis centre forward player 1981–1982 Patrick Vieira holding midfielder player EDS manager 2010–2011 2011–2015 2015 Stuart Pearce , MBE left back player coach manager 2001–2002 2002–2005 2005–2007 Sun Jihai defender player 2002–2008 2016 David Seaman MBE goalkeeper player 2003–2004 2017 Frank Lampard OBE attacking midfielder player 2014–2015 2020 Justin Fashanu centre forward player 1989 2023 Vincent Kompany defender player 2008–2019 Managers with Manchester City backgrounds inducted to date 2002 Sir Matt Busby , CBE, KCSG inside right & right half player 1928–1936 2004 Don Revie , OBE centre forward player 1951–1956 2005 Howard Kendall attacking midfielder manager 1989–1990 2009 Joe Mercer , OBE left half manager 1965–1971 Malcolm Allison centre half assistant mgr. manager 1965–1971 1971–1973 1979–1980 Manchester City "Football Foundation Community Champions" inducted to date 2007 Niall Quinn , (Honorary) MBE forward player 1990–1996 Manchester City teams inducted to date 2009 Manchester City league- and European cup-winning team of 1967–1970 not applicable Last updated: 21 July 2021. Source: list of NFM Hall of Fame inductees Premier League Hall of Fame [ edit ] The following former Manchester City players have been inducted into the Premier League Hall of Fame . Inaugurated in 2020, but delayed for a year due to the COVID-19 pandemic , the Hall of Fame is intended to recognise and honour players that have achieved great success and made a significant contribution to the league since its founding in 1992 . Inductees at the Premier League Hall of Fame Year of induction Player Position Role at MCFC Years in role at MCFC Players with Manchester City backgrounds inducted to date 2021 Frank Lampard , OBE attacking midfielder player 2014–2015 2022 Patrick Vieira midfielder player EDS manager 2010–2011 2011–2015 Peter Schmeichel goalkeeper player 2002–2003 Vincent Kompany defender player 2008–2019 Sergio Agüero striker player 2011–2021 2024 Andy Cole striker player 2005–2006 Last updated: 22 April 2024. Source: list of PL Hall of Fame inductees Scottish Football Museum Hall of Fame [ edit ] The following former Manchester City players and managers have been inducted into the Scottish Football Hall of Fame (a.k.a. the Scottish Football Museum Hall of Fame ), and are listed according to the year of their induction within the various categories: Inductees at the SFM Hall of Fame Year of induction Player Position Role at MCFC Years in role at MCFC Players with Manchester City backgrounds inducted to date 2004 Denis Law forward player 1960–1961, 1973–1974 Billy McNeill , MBE defender manager 1983–1986 2010 Bobby Johnstone forward (inside right) player 1955–1959 Managers with Manchester City backgrounds inducted to date 2004 Matt Busby , CBE , KCSG forward (inside right) / midfielder (right half) player 1928–1936 Last updated: 30 March 2011. Source: list of SFM Hall of Fame inductees Welsh Sports Hall of Fame [ edit ] The following former Manchester City players have been inducted into the Welsh Sports Hall of Fame , and are listed according to the year of their induction: Inductees at the Welsh Sports Hall of Fame Year of induction Player Position Role at MCFC Years in role at MCFC Players with Manchester City backgrounds inducted to date 1990 Billy Meredith defender player 1894–1906 1999 Horace Blew defender player 1906 ^ James, Gary (2005). The Official Manchester City Hall of Fame . Hamlyn. ISBN 0-600-61282-1 . ^ "Starting line-up inducted into City Hall of Fame" . Manchester Evening News . 23 January 2004. Archived from the original on 12 November 2012 . Retrieved 30 March 2011 . ^ "King Ken collects plaudits" . Manchester Evening News . 9 February 2005. Archived from the original on 24 May 2011 . Retrieved 30 March 2011 . ^ "City legends honoured" . Manchester Evening News . 22 February 2006. Archived from the original on 12 November 2012 . Retrieved 30 March 2011 . ^ "Academy honoured at Hall of Fame" . mancity.com . (Manchester City Football Club). 6 March 2008. Archived from the original on 20 April 2017 . Retrieved 19 April 2017 . ^ "City Greats go into Hall of Fame" . mancity.com . (Manchester City Football Club). 16 September 2009. Archived from the original on 20 April 2017 . Retrieved 19 April 2017 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Manchester City Hall of Fame

Manchester City Hall of Fame [ edit ] The following former Manchester City players and managers have been inducted into the Manchester City F.C. Hall of Fame , and are listed according to the year of their induction: Inductees at the MCFC Hall of Fame Year of induction Player Position Role at MCFC Years in role at MCFC Notes Manchester City players who were the inaugural inductees in January 2004 2004 Billy Meredith FW ( outside right ) player 1894–1906, 1921–1924 also see NFM Hall of Fame Tommy Johnson FW ( centre forward ) & ( inside left ) player 1919–1930 Eric Brook FW ( outside left ) player 1928–1939 Frank Swift GK player 1933–1949 also see NFM Hall of Fame Peter Doherty FW ( inside left ) player 1936–1945 also see NFM Hall of Fame Roy Clarke FW ( outside left ) player 1947–1958 Lifetime achievement award Bert Trautmann , OBE GK player 1949–1964 also see NFM Hall of Fame Roy Paul MF ( half back ) player 1950–1957 Mike Summerbee FW / MF ( outside right ) player 1965–1975 also see NFM Hall of Fame Tony Book DF ( right back ) player manager 1966–1974 1973, 1974–1979, 1980, 1989, 1993 Colin Bell , MBE MF player 1966–1979 also see NFM Hall of Fame Francis Lee FW player chairman 1967–1974 1994–1998 also see NFM Hall of Fame Joe Corrigan GK player 1967–1983 Paul Lake FW / MF / DF player 1987–1996 Niall Quinn , (Honorary) MBE FW player 1990–1996 also see NFM Hall of Fame Manchester City players and teams inducted since 2004 2005 Sam Cowan DF ( centre half ) player manager 1924–1935 1946–1947 Ken Barnes MF ( wing half ) player 1950–1961 Lifetime achievement award Alan Oakes MF player 1958–1976 Joe Mercer , OBE MF ( left half ) manager 1965–1971 Outstanding achievement award also see NFM Hall of Fame Malcolm Allison DF ( centre half ) assistant mgr. manager 1965–1971 1971–1973, 1979–1980 Outstanding achievement award also see NFM Hall of Fame 2006 Ernie Toseland FW ( outside right ) player 1928–1938 Johnny Hart FW ( inside forward ) player manager 1947–1960 1973 Lifetime achievement award Manchester City 1955–56 FA Cup-winning team not applicable en masse induction Mike Doyle DF / MF player 1965–1978 Shaun Goater FW player 1998–2003 Cult hero award 2008 Fred Tilson FW ( centre forward ) player 1928–1939 Neil Young FW ( outside left ) & ( inside left ) player 1961–1972 Alex Williams , MBE GK player 1980–1986 Lifetime achievement award 2009 Uwe Rösler FW player 1994–1998 ^ James, Gary (2005). The Official Manchester City Hall of Fame . Hamlyn. ISBN 0-600-61282-1 . ^ "Starting line-up inducted into City Hall of Fame" . Manchester Evening News . 23 January 2004. Archived from the original on 12 November 2012 . Retrieved 30 March 2011 . ^ "King Ken collects plaudits" . Manchester Evening News . 9 February 2005. Archived from the original on 24 May 2011 . Retrieved 30 March 2011 . ^ "City legends honoured" . Manchester Evening News . 22 February 2006. Archived from the original on 12 November 2012 . Retrieved 30 March 2011 . ^ "Academy honoured at Hall of Fame" . mancity.com . (Manchester City Football Club). 6 March 2008. Archived from the original on 20 April 2017 . Retrieved 19 April 2017 . ^ "City Greats go into Hall of Fame" . mancity.com . (Manchester City Football Club). 16 September 2009. Archived from the original on 20 April 2017 . Retrieved 19 April 2017 .

______________________________________________________________________

### National Football Museum Hall of Fame

National Football Museum Hall of Fame [ edit ] The following former Manchester City players and managers have been inducted into the English Football Hall of Fame ( National Football Museum Hall of Fame ), and are listed according to the year of their induction within the various categories: Inductees at the NFM Hall of Fame Year of induction Player Position Role at MCFC Years in role at MCFC Players with Manchester City backgrounds inducted to date 2002 Peter Doherty inside left player 1936–1945 Denis Law , CBE forward & midfielder player 1960–1961 1973–1974 Kevin Keegan , OBE forward manager 2001–2005 2003 Peter Schmeichel , MBE goalkeeper player 2002–2003 Alan Ball , MBE attacking midfielder manager 1995–1996 2005 Bert Trautmann , OBE goalkeeper player 1949–1964 Colin Bell , MBE attacking midfielder player 1966–1979 2007 Billy Meredith right winger player 1894–1906 1921–1924 Peter Beardsley midfielder player 1998 Mark Hughes forward manager 2008–2009 2009 Frank Swift goalkeeper player 1933–1949 2010 Francis Lee , CBE forward player 1967–1974 2013 Mike Summerbee forward player 1965–1975 2014 Trevor Francis centre forward player 1981–1982 Patrick Vieira holding midfielder player EDS manager 2010–2011 2011–2015 2015 Stuart Pearce , MBE left back player coach manager 2001–2002 2002–2005 2005–2007 Sun Jihai defender player 2002–2008 2016 David Seaman MBE goalkeeper player 2003–2004 2017 Frank Lampard OBE attacking midfielder player 2014–2015 2020 Justin Fashanu centre forward player 1989 2023 Vincent Kompany defender player 2008–2019 Managers with Manchester City backgrounds inducted to date 2002 Sir Matt Busby , CBE, KCSG inside right & right half player 1928–1936 2004 Don Revie , OBE centre forward player 1951–1956 2005 Howard Kendall attacking midfielder manager 1989–1990 2009 Joe Mercer , OBE left half manager 1965–1971 Malcolm Allison centre half assistant mgr. manager 1965–1971 1971–1973 1979–1980 Manchester City "Football Foundation Community Champions" inducted to date 2007 Niall Quinn , (Honorary) MBE forward player 1990–1996 Manchester City teams inducted to date 2009 Manchester City league- and European cup-winning team of 1967–1970 not applicable Last updated: 21 July 2021. Source: list of NFM Hall of Fame inductees

______________________________________________________________________

### Premier League Hall of Fame

Premier League Hall of Fame [ edit ] The following former Manchester City players have been inducted into the Premier League Hall of Fame . Inaugurated in 2020, but delayed for a year due to the COVID-19 pandemic , the Hall of Fame is intended to recognise and honour players that have achieved great success and made a significant contribution to the league since its founding in 1992 . Inductees at the Premier League Hall of Fame Year of induction Player Position Role at MCFC Years in role at MCFC Players with Manchester City backgrounds inducted to date 2021 Frank Lampard , OBE attacking midfielder player 2014–2015 2022 Patrick Vieira midfielder player EDS manager 2010–2011 2011–2015 Peter Schmeichel goalkeeper player 2002–2003 Vincent Kompany defender player 2008–2019 Sergio Agüero striker player 2011–2021 2024 Andy Cole striker player 2005–2006 Last updated: 22 April 2024. Source: list of PL Hall of Fame inductees

______________________________________________________________________

### Scottish Football Museum Hall of Fame

Scottish Football Museum Hall of Fame [ edit ] The following former Manchester City players and managers have been inducted into the Scottish Football Hall of Fame (a.k.a. the Scottish Football Museum Hall of Fame ), and are listed according to the year of their induction within the various categories: Inductees at the SFM Hall of Fame Year of induction Player Position Role at MCFC Years in role at MCFC Players with Manchester City backgrounds inducted to date 2004 Denis Law forward player 1960–1961, 1973–1974 Billy McNeill , MBE defender manager 1983–1986 2010 Bobby Johnstone forward (inside right) player 1955–1959 Managers with Manchester City backgrounds inducted to date 2004 Matt Busby , CBE , KCSG forward (inside right) / midfielder (right half) player 1928–1936 Last updated: 30 March 2011. Source: list of SFM Hall of Fame inductees

______________________________________________________________________

### Welsh Sports Hall of Fame

Welsh Sports Hall of Fame [ edit ] The following former Manchester City players have been inducted into the Welsh Sports Hall of Fame , and are listed according to the year of their induction: Inductees at the Welsh Sports Hall of Fame Year of induction Player Position Role at MCFC Years in role at MCFC Players with Manchester City backgrounds inducted to date 1990 Billy Meredith defender player 1894–1906 1999 Horace Blew defender player 1906

______________________________________________________________________

## Non-playing staff

Non-playing staff [ edit ] Chairman Khaldoon Al Mubarak Executive [ edit ] Position Name Chairman Khaldoon Al Mubarak Chief Executive Officer Ferran Soriano Director of Football Txiki Begiristain Hugo Viana Club ambassadors Mike Summerbee Paul Dickov Micah Richards Pablo Zabaleta Joleon Lescott Shaun Wright-Phillips Coaching [ edit ] Pep Guardiola has been the manager of the club since 2016. Position Name Manager Pep Guardiola Assistant managers TBC Fitness coach Lorenzo Buenaventura Head of goalkeeping Xabier Mancisidor Goalkeeper coach Richard Wright Performance analysis coach Carles Planchart Head of player support Manel Estiarte Head of academy Thomas Krucken Under-23 EDS manager Ben Wilkinson Under-23 EDS assistant manager Craig Mudd Under-23 GK coach Imanol Egaña Under-18 Academy manager Oliver Reiss Under-18 Academy assistant manager Jamie Carr Under-18 Academy assistant manager Richard Dunne Under-18 Academy GK coach Max Johnson Chief scout Carlo Cancellieri Source: Notable managers [ edit ] Main article: List of Manchester City F.C. managers Manchester City managers to have won major honours. Table correct as of 25 May 2025 Name From To Matches Wins Draws Loss Win % Honours Tom Maley 1902 1906 150 89 22 39 0 59.33 1903–04 FA Cup Wilf Wild 1932 1946 352 158 71 123 0 44.89 1933–34 FA Cup 1936–37 First Division Les McDowall 1950 1963 592 220 127 245 0 37.16 1955–56 FA Cup Joe Mercer 1965 1971 340 149 94 97 0 43.82 1967–68 First Division 1968 FA Charity Shield 1968–69 FA Cup 1969–70 European Cup Winners' Cup 1969–70 League Cup Tony Book 1973 1980 269 114 75 80 0 42.38 1975–76 League Cup Roberto Mancini 2009 2013 191 113 38 40 0 59.16 2010–11 FA Cup 2011–12 Premier League 2012 FA Community Shield Manuel Pellegrini 2013 2016 167 100 28 39 0 59.88 2013–14 League Cup 2013–14 Premier League 2015–16 League Cup Pep Guardiola 2016 incumbent 529 373 77 79 0 70.51 2017–18 League Cup 2017–18 Premier League 2018 FA Community Shield 2018–19 League Cup 2018–19 Premier League 2018–19 FA Cup 2019 FA Community Shield 2019–20 League Cup 2020–21 League Cup 2020–21 Premier League 2021–22 Premier League 2022–23 Premier League 2022–23 FA Cup 2022–23 UEFA Champions League 2023 UEFA Super Cup 2023 FIFA Club World Cup 2023–24 Premier League 2024 FA Community Shield ^ "Summerbee Mike" . Archived from the original on 27 May 2022 . Retrieved 27 May 2022 . ^ "The Changing Role of the Media: Paul Dickov – fcbusiness" . 6 July 2021. Archived from the original on 10 November 2021 . Retrieved 27 May 2022 . ^ "Micah Richards explains earning Roy Keane's respect despite Man City and Man Utd rivalry | Football | Sport | Express.co.uk" . 29 March 2021. Archived from the original on 27 May 2022. ^ "Zabaleta and Premier League Trophy visit young leaders in Buenos Aires" . Archived from the original on 27 May 2022 . Retrieved 27 May 2022 . ^ "Joleon Lescott is loving his new role at Man City" . 19 July 2018. Archived from the original on 27 May 2022 . Retrieved 27 May 2022 . ^ "Shaun Wright-Phillips names his toughest opponent and delivers verdict on Premier League title race" . 21 April 2022. Archived from the original on 27 May 2022 . Retrieved 27 May 2022 . ^ "Zach Steffen: I'm proud to be part of City's goalkeeping union" . mancity.com . Archived from the original on 30 April 2021 . Retrieved 12 March 2021 . ^ a b c "Reiss arrives as Under-18s lead coach" . Manchester City . Retrieved 15 July 2024 . ^ "Players" . mancity.com. Archived from the original on 26 April 2023 . Retrieved 20 July 2022 . ^ "Managers" . mcfcstats.com . Archived from the original on 29 September 2017 . Retrieved 29 March 2006 . Cite error: There are <ref group=lower-alpha> tags or {{efn}} templates on this page, but the references will not show without a {{reflist|group=lower-alpha}} template or {{notelist}} template (see the help page ).

______________________________________________________________________

### Executive

Executive [ edit ] Position Name Chairman Khaldoon Al Mubarak Chief Executive Officer Ferran Soriano Director of Football Txiki Begiristain Hugo Viana Club ambassadors Mike Summerbee Paul Dickov Micah Richards Pablo Zabaleta Joleon Lescott Shaun Wright-Phillips ^ "Summerbee Mike" . Archived from the original on 27 May 2022 . Retrieved 27 May 2022 . ^ "The Changing Role of the Media: Paul Dickov – fcbusiness" . 6 July 2021. Archived from the original on 10 November 2021 . Retrieved 27 May 2022 . ^ "Micah Richards explains earning Roy Keane's respect despite Man City and Man Utd rivalry | Football | Sport | Express.co.uk" . 29 March 2021. Archived from the original on 27 May 2022. ^ "Zabaleta and Premier League Trophy visit young leaders in Buenos Aires" . Archived from the original on 27 May 2022 . Retrieved 27 May 2022 . ^ "Joleon Lescott is loving his new role at Man City" . 19 July 2018. Archived from the original on 27 May 2022 . Retrieved 27 May 2022 . ^ "Shaun Wright-Phillips names his toughest opponent and delivers verdict on Premier League title race" . 21 April 2022. Archived from the original on 27 May 2022 . Retrieved 27 May 2022 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Coaching

Coaching [ edit ] Pep Guardiola has been the manager of the club since 2016. Position Name Manager Pep Guardiola Assistant managers TBC Fitness coach Lorenzo Buenaventura Head of goalkeeping Xabier Mancisidor Goalkeeper coach Richard Wright Performance analysis coach Carles Planchart Head of player support Manel Estiarte Head of academy Thomas Krucken Under-23 EDS manager Ben Wilkinson Under-23 EDS assistant manager Craig Mudd Under-23 GK coach Imanol Egaña Under-18 Academy manager Oliver Reiss Under-18 Academy assistant manager Jamie Carr Under-18 Academy assistant manager Richard Dunne Under-18 Academy GK coach Max Johnson Chief scout Carlo Cancellieri Source: ^ "Zach Steffen: I'm proud to be part of City's goalkeeping union" . mancity.com . Archived from the original on 30 April 2021 . Retrieved 12 March 2021 . ^ a b c "Reiss arrives as Under-18s lead coach" . Manchester City . Retrieved 15 July 2024 . ^ "Players" . mancity.com. Archived from the original on 26 April 2023 . Retrieved 20 July 2022 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Notable managers

Notable managers [ edit ] Main article: List of Manchester City F.C. managers Manchester City managers to have won major honours. Table correct as of 25 May 2025 Name From To Matches Wins Draws Loss Win % Honours Tom Maley 1902 1906 150 89 22 39 0 59.33 1903–04 FA Cup Wilf Wild 1932 1946 352 158 71 123 0 44.89 1933–34 FA Cup 1936–37 First Division Les McDowall 1950 1963 592 220 127 245 0 37.16 1955–56 FA Cup Joe Mercer 1965 1971 340 149 94 97 0 43.82 1967–68 First Division 1968 FA Charity Shield 1968–69 FA Cup 1969–70 European Cup Winners' Cup 1969–70 League Cup Tony Book 1973 1980 269 114 75 80 0 42.38 1975–76 League Cup Roberto Mancini 2009 2013 191 113 38 40 0 59.16 2010–11 FA Cup 2011–12 Premier League 2012 FA Community Shield Manuel Pellegrini 2013 2016 167 100 28 39 0 59.88 2013–14 League Cup 2013–14 Premier League 2015–16 League Cup Pep Guardiola 2016 incumbent 529 373 77 79 0 70.51 2017–18 League Cup 2017–18 Premier League 2018 FA Community Shield 2018–19 League Cup 2018–19 Premier League 2018–19 FA Cup 2019 FA Community Shield 2019–20 League Cup 2020–21 League Cup 2020–21 Premier League 2021–22 Premier League 2022–23 Premier League 2022–23 FA Cup 2022–23 UEFA Champions League 2023 UEFA Super Cup 2023 FIFA Club World Cup 2023–24 Premier League 2024 FA Community Shield ^ "Managers" . mcfcstats.com . Archived from the original on 29 September 2017 . Retrieved 29 March 2006 . Cite error: There are <ref group=lower-alpha> tags or {{efn}} templates on this page, but the references will not show without a {{reflist|group=lower-alpha}} template or {{notelist}} template (see the help page ).

______________________________________________________________________

## Supporters

Supporters [ edit ] Main article: Manchester City F.C. supporters Since moving to the City of Manchester Stadium, the club's average attendances have been in the top six in England, usually in excess of 40,000. Even in the late 1990s, when City were relegated twice in three seasons and playing in the third tier of English football (then the Second Division , now the EFL League One ), home attendances were in the region of 30,000, compared to an average of fewer than 8,000 for the division. Research carried out by Manchester City in 2005 estimated a fanbase of 886,000 in the United Kingdom and a total in excess of 2 million worldwide, although since the purchase of the club by Sheikh Mansour, and City's recent achievements, that figure has since ballooned to many times that size. Manchester City's officially recognised supporters club is the Manchester City F.C. Supporters Club (1949), formed by a merger of two existing organisations in 2010: the Official Supporters Club (OSC) and the Centenary Supporters Association (CSA). City fans' song of choice is a rendition of " Blue Moon ", which despite its melancholic theme is belted out with gusto as though it were a heroic anthem. City supporters tend to believe that unpredictability is an inherent trait of their team, and label unexpected results "typical City". Events that fans regard as "typical City" include the club being the only reigning English champions ever to be relegated (in 1938 ), the only team to score and concede over 100 goals in the same season ( 1957–58 ), or the more recent example where Manchester City were the only team to beat Chelsea in the latter's record-breaking 2004–05 Premier League season , yet in the same season City were knocked out of the FA Cup by Oldham Athletic , a team two divisions lower. In the late 1980s, City fans started a craze of bringing inflatable objects to matches, primarily oversized bananas. One disputed explanation for the phenomenon is that in a match against West Bromwich Albion , chants from fans calling for the introduction of Imre Varadi as a substitute mutated into "Imre Banana". Terraces packed with inflatable-waving supporters became a frequent sight in the 1988–89 season , as the craze spread to other clubs (inflatable fish were seen at Grimsby Town ), with the craze reaching its peak at City's match at Stoke City on 26 December 1988, a game declared by fanzines as a fancy dress party. In 2010, Manchester City supporters adopted an exuberant dance, dubbed The Poznań , from fans of Polish club Lech Poznań that they played in the Europa League . In 2022, Manchester City proposed the release of the Connected Scarf , that would contain a sensor tracking physiological and emotional data of the wearer, for supporters in 2023. ^ "Top 30 English Football Clubs by League Attendances" . footballeconomy.com attendance table 2002–2005 . Archived from the original on 12 January 2016 . Retrieved 30 December 2005 . ^ "Premier League – Average Attendances – Home Matches" . Football Web Pages . Retrieved 28 December 2023 . ^ "Average Attendances – English Football Divisions – 1994/95–2004/05" . footballeconomy.com division attendance table 1995–2005 . Archived from the original on 3 March 2016 . Retrieved 30 December 2005 . ^ "Customer Success – Manchester City Football Club" . Hewlett-Packard case study . Archived from the original on 25 November 2005 . Retrieved 4 April 2007 . (archive.org mirror) ^ "About MCFC Supporters Club" . MCFC Supporters Club . Archived from the original on 30 October 2016 . Retrieved 19 April 2017 . ^ "FA Cup preview" . ESPN Star article . Archived from the original on 19 December 2007 . Retrieved 24 September 2009 . (archive.org mirror) ^ "Typical City!" . Unofficial supporters homepage . Archived from the original on 11 January 2006 . Retrieved 25 March 2006 . ^ Wallace, David (2007). Century City – Manchester City Football Club 1957/58 . Leigh: King of the Kippax. p. ix. ISBN 978-0-9557056-0-1 . ^ "The Inflatables Craze" . Manchester City Football Club Supporters' Homepage . Archived from the original on 23 April 1999 . Retrieved 30 December 2005 . ^ Pitt-Brooke, Jack (20 April 2011). "Poles apart: how fans of Poznan inspired City's unlikely dance craze" . The Independent . London. Archived from the original on 26 October 2011 . Retrieved 7 November 2011 . ^ "Man City fans to sport high-tech scarves next season" . reuters.com. 27 July 2022. Archived from the original on 1 May 2023 . Retrieved 21 May 2023 .

______________________________________________________________________

## Rivalries

Rivalries [ edit ] Main articles: Manchester derby and Liverpool F.C.–Manchester City F.C. rivalry The Manchester derby in the Premier League , 6 November 2021 Manchester City's biggest rivalry is with neighbours Manchester United , against whom they contest the Manchester derby . Before the Second World War , when travel to away games was rare, many Mancunian football fans regularly watched both teams even if considering themselves "supporters" of only one. This practice continued into the early 1960s but as travel became easier, and the cost of entry to matches rose, watching both teams became unusual and the rivalry intensified. A common stereotype is that City fans come from Manchester proper, while United fans come from elsewhere. A 2002 report by a researcher at Manchester Metropolitan University found that while it was true that a higher proportion of City season ticket holders came from Manchester postcode areas (40% compared to United's 29%), there were more United season ticket holders, the lower percentage being due to United's higher overall number of season ticket holders (27,667 compared to City's 16,481). The report noted that since the compiling of data in 2001, the number of both City and United season ticket holders had risen; expansion of United's ground and City's move to the City of Manchester Stadium have caused season ticket sales to increase further. Over the last few years, Manchester City has also developed a notable rivalry with Liverpool , currently considered one of the biggest in association football. Though the two clubs had been involved in a title race in the 1976–77 season , Liverpool and City's modern rivalry began in the 2010s, with the Blues beating Liverpool to the 2013–14 title by just two points on the final day of the season. In the final of the 2015–16 League Cup , City defeated Liverpool on penalties after a 1–1 draw. The two clubs met in European competition for the first time in the 2017–18 Champions League quarter-finals, where Liverpool won 5–1 on aggregate , ultimately reaching the final and then winning the competition a year later. In the 2018–19 season , City again won the title on the final day, with the Blues' 98 points and Liverpool's 97 being the third- and fourth-highest Premier League points totals ever. The following season , Liverpool clinched the title, recording 99 points (the second-highest Premier League total ever after Manchester City's 100 in 2017–18 ) to finish 18 points above runners-up City. The Blues then regained the title in 2020–21 and outgunned Liverpool in another closely-fought title race in 2021–22 , to finish with 93 points to Liverpool's 92. The success of the two teams in the 2010s and 2020s has led to the development of a rivalry between Jürgen Klopp and Pep Guardiola , the managers of Liverpool and Manchester City, with the two previously having been the respective managers of Der Klassiker rivals Borussia Dortmund and Bayern Munich in the Bundesliga . At the end of the 2018–19 season, Guardiola described his relationship with Klopp as a "beautiful rivalry" and called Klopp's Liverpool team "the strongest opponents I have faced in my career as a manager". In September 2019, Klopp hailed Guardiola for being his 'greatest rival ever', after both were nominated for the FIFA Men's Coach of the Year award in 2019, which Klopp ultimately won. In a 2019 survey, City fans answered that Liverpool, and not Manchester United, are the club's biggest rivals. Manchester City also have long established local rivalries with Bolton Wanderers , Oldham Athletic , and Stockport County , and more recent competitive Premier League rivalries with Tottenham Hotspur , Chelsea and Arsenal . ^ "Do You Come From Manchester?" (PDF) . Manchester Metropolitan University study . Archived from the original (PDF) on 27 February 2008 . Retrieved 9 January 2008 . ^ Malyan, Christy (6 October 2018). "Eleven moments that made Liverpool-Manchester City the biggest rivalry in English football" . footballfancast.com . Football Fancast. Archived from the original on 7 October 2019 . Retrieved 7 October 2019 . ^ "Liverpool v Man City is now the league's biggest rivalry and the bitterness is growing | Goal.com" . www.goal.com . Archived from the original on 17 December 2019 . Retrieved 3 December 2020 . ^ " 'Like going into the Colosseum' - How Liverpool v Man City became the Premier League's biggest rivalry | Goal.com" . www.goal.com . Archived from the original on 7 November 2020 . Retrieved 3 December 2020 . ^ "2013/14 Season Review: Man City deny Liverpool" . www.premierleague.com . Archived from the original on 24 November 2020 . Retrieved 24 October 2020 . ^ "Liverpool vs Manchester City fixture record" . Archived from the original on 9 April 2022 . Retrieved 11 April 2022 . ^ "Was Leroy Sane offside against Liverpool? The disallowed goal explained" . 11 April 2018. Archived from the original on 9 April 2022 . Retrieved 11 April 2022 . ^ "Man City come from behind at Brighton to clinch title" . BBC Sport . 12 May 2019. Archived from the original on 5 March 2020 . Retrieved 24 October 2020 . ^ Wilson, Paul (30 December 2016). "Pep Guardiola says he learned from Jürgen Klopp and praises attacking style" . The Guardian . ISSN 0261-3077 . Archived from the original on 3 October 2021 . Retrieved 16 October 2019 . ^ "Will Guardiola vs. Klopp be the next great Premier League rivalry?" . ESPN.com . 2 August 2019. Archived from the original on 5 August 2019 . Retrieved 16 October 2019 . ^ "Pep Guardiola says Liverpool are the strongest opponents he's ever faced" . GiveMeSport . 20 September 2019. Archived from the original on 26 September 2019 . Retrieved 16 October 2019 . ^ Gorst, Paul (26 September 2019). "Klopp hails 'exceptional' Guardiola as his greatest ever rival" . Liverpool Echo . Archived from the original on 2 October 2019 . Retrieved 16 October 2019 . ^ "Ex-Man City star questions why Klopp was named Coach of the Year over Guardiola" . talkSPORT . 24 September 2019. Archived from the original on 26 September 2019 . Retrieved 16 October 2019 . ^ "The top five rivals of English football's top 92 clubs have been revealed" . GiveMeSport . 27 August 2019. Archived from the original on 29 September 2019 . Retrieved 4 December 2020 . ^ "Rivalry Uncovered!" (PDF) . The Football Fans Census . Archived from the original (PDF) on 20 October 2013 . Retrieved 3 December 2020 . ^ Dubas-Fisher, David; Bray, Joe (11 August 2019). "Man City fans choose main rival between Liverpool and Man Utd" . Manchester Evening News . Archived from the original on 1 October 2020 . Retrieved 3 December 2020 . ^ Magee, Will (16 December 2016). "The Monied Modern Rivalry Between Arsenal and Manchester City" . Vice . Retrieved 16 December 2016 .

______________________________________________________________________

## Ownership and finances

Ownership and finances [ edit ] Main article: Manchester City F.C. ownership and finances The holding company of Manchester City, Manchester City Limited, is a private limited company , with approximately 54 million shares in issue. The club has been in private hands since 2007, when the major shareholders agreed to sell their holdings to UK Sports Investments Limited (UKSIL), a company controlled by former Thailand prime minister Thaksin Shinawatra . UKSIL then made a formal offer to buy the shares held by several thousands of small shareholders. Prior to the Thaksin takeover, the club was listed on the specialist independent equity market PLUS (formerly OFEX), where it had been listed since 1995. On 6 July 2007, having acquired 75% of the shares, Thaksin de-listed the club and re-registered it as a private company. By August, UKSIL had acquired over 90% of the shares and exercised its rights under the Companies Act to "squeeze out" the remaining shareholders, and acquire the entire shareholding. Thaksin Shinawatra became chairman of the club and two of Thaksin's children, Pintongta and Oak Chinnawat became directors. Former chairman John Wardle stayed on the board for a year, but resigned in July 2008 following Nike executive Garry Cook 's appointment as executive chairman in May. The club made a pre-tax loss of £11m in the fiscal year ending 31 May 2007, the final year for which the club published accounts as a public company. Thaksin's purchase prompted a period of transfer spending at the club, in total around £30 million, whereas over the several previous seasons Manchester City's net spending had been among the lowest in the Premier League. A year later, this investment was dwarfed by an influx of money derived from the club's takeover. On 1 September 2008, Abu Dhabi -based Abu Dhabi United Group Investment and Development Limited completed the takeover of Manchester City. The deal, worth a reported £200 million, was announced on the morning of 1 September. It sparked various transfer "deadline-day" rumours and bids such as the club's attempt to gazump Manchester United 's protracted bid to sign Dimitar Berbatov from Tottenham Hotspur for a fee in excess of £30 million. Minutes before the transfer window closed, the club signed Robinho from Real Madrid for a British record transfer fee of £32.5 million. The wealth of the new owners meant that, in the summer of 2009, City were able to finance the purchase of experienced international players prior to the new season , spending more than any other club in the Premier League. City Football Group [ edit ] Main article: City Football Group Created in the 2013–14 season to manage the global footballing interests of the Abu Dhabi United Group , City Football Group (CFG) is an umbrella corporation owning stakes in a network of global clubs for the purposes of resource sharing, academy networking and marketing. CFG ownership [ edit ] Clubs owned by CFG Listed in order of acquisition/foundation. Bold indicates the club was founded by CFG. * indicates the club was acquired by CFG. § indicates the club is co-owned. 2008 Manchester City F.C. * 2009–2012 2013 New York City FC § 2014 Melbourne City FC * Yokohama F. Marinos * § 2015–2016 2017 Montevideo City Torque * Girona FC * § 2018 2019 Shenzhen Peng City F.C. * § Mumbai City FC * § 2020 Lommel S.K. * ES Troyes AC * 2021 2022 Palermo F.C. * § 2023 Bahia * § In addition to Manchester City, City Football Group owns stakes in a number of clubs: Melbourne City (2014–present) On 23 January 2014, it was announced that Manchester City had partnered with the Australian rugby league franchise Melbourne Storm , purchasing a majority stake in A-League team Melbourne City . On 5 August 2015, CFG bought out the Storm and acquired full ownership of the team. Yokohama F. Marinos (2014–present) On 20 May 2014, it was announced that Manchester City had partnered with the Japanese Automotive company Nissan to become a minority shareholder in Yokohama based J-League side, Yokohama F. Marinos . New York City FC (2015–present) On 21 May 2013, it was announced that Manchester City had partnered with the American baseball franchise the New York Yankees to introduce the 20th Major League Soccer expansion team, New York City FC as its majority shareholder. The club began play in the 2015 Major League Soccer season . Montevideo City Torque (2017–present) On 5 April 2017, CFG confirmed the purchase of Uruguayan second division team Montevideo City Torque . Girona (2017–present) On 23 August 2017, it was announced that CFG had acquired 44.3% of Segunda División (second tier) side Girona . Another 44.3% was held by the Girona Football Group, led by Pere Guardiola, brother of Manchester City manager Pep Guardiola . Shenzhen Peng City (2019–present) On 20 February 2019, it was announced that CFG as well as UBTECH and China Sports Capital had acquired Sichuan Jiuniu . Mumbai City (2019–present) CFG was announced as majority stakeholder of Mumbai City on Thursday 28 November 2019 after acquiring 65% of the club. Mumbai City is the professional football club based in Mumbai , competing in the Indian Super League . Lommel (2020–present) CFG was announced as a majority stakeholder of Lommel on Monday 11 May 2020, acquiring the majority (unspecified) of the club's shares. Lommel is a professional football club based in Lommel , competing in the Belgian First Division B (second tier). Troyes (2020–present) On 3 September 2020, CFG announced that they had purchased the shares of Daniel Masoni, the former owner of Ligue 2 (second tier) club Troyes , making them the majority shareholder of the French club. Palermo (2022–present) On 4 July 2022, Italian Serie B (second tier) club Palermo announced that CFG had acquired an 80% majority stake in their ownership. Bahia (2023–present) On 3 December 2022, CFG acquired 90% of Campeonato Brasileiro Série A club Bahia . The deal was finalised on 4 May 2023. Partner clubs [ edit ] Club Bolívar (2021–present) On 12 January 2021, CFG announced Bolivian club Club Bolívar as its first partner club. Vannes (2021–present) On 18 February 2021, CFG announced that French Championnat National 2 (tier 4) club Vannes would be its second partner club. ^ "Manchester City plc" . PLUS Markets Group . Archived from the original on 5 February 2007 . Retrieved 30 April 2007 . ^ "Thaksin completes Man City buyout" . BBC News. 6 July 2007. Archived from the original on 12 January 2016 . Retrieved 6 July 2007 . ^ Taylor, Daniel (10 April 2009). "Wardle quits City" . The Guardian . UK. Archived from the original on 7 November 2011 . Retrieved 28 August 2008 . ^ "Manchester City's losses trebled under Thaksin Shinawatra" . The Telegraph . 10 April 2009. Archived from the original on 10 January 2022 . Retrieved 19 April 2017 . ^ "Eriksson continues Man City spending" . Reuters . 2 August 2007. Archived from the original on 4 March 2009 . Retrieved 13 January 2008 . ^ "Bojinov joins Man City" . FIFA. Archived from the original on 21 August 2007 . Retrieved 13 January 2008 . ^ Montague, James (1 September 2008). "Manchester City's new owners put national pride before profit" . The Guardian . UK. Archived from the original on 27 June 2013 . Retrieved 1 April 2011 . ^ "City Takeover Confirmed" . Sky Sports. Archived from the original on 3 March 2016 . Retrieved 9 January 2008 . ^ "Man City beat Chelsea to Robinho" . bbc.co.uk . (Manchester City Football Club). 1 September 2008. Archived from the original on 23 January 2009 . Retrieved 19 April 2017 . ^ "English Transfer Window Ends With Man City As Biggest Spenders" . goal.com. Archived from the original on 3 October 2018 . Retrieved 2 September 2009 . ^ "The resources and power of Sheikh Mansoor makes this deal a seismic moment for the A-League" . Herald Sun. 23 January 2014. Archived from the original on 12 March 2020 . Retrieved 23 January 2014 . ^ John Stensholt (2 August 2015). "Manchester City buy out wealthy Melbourne City investors" . Australian Financial Review. Archived from the original on 8 August 2015 . Retrieved 5 August 2015 . ^ "Manchester City Pre-Season Tour 2016" (PDF) . mancity.com. Archived (PDF) from the original on 20 April 2017 . Retrieved 19 April 2017 . ^ "New Soccer Team Introduces a Director of Operations" . The New York Times . 22 May 2013. Archived from the original on 9 November 2017 . Retrieved 22 May 2013 . ^ "CFG Extends South American Footprint" . Manchester City Official Website . 5 April 2017. Archived from the original on 21 May 2017 . Retrieved 5 April 2017 . ^ "Manchester City's parent company seals deal for major stake in Girona" . The Guardian . 23 August 2017. Archived from the original on 24 August 2017 . Retrieved 24 August 2017 . ^ "曼城母公司收购四川九牛获官方宣布" . Sina.com . 20 February 2019. Archived from the original on 20 February 2019 . Retrieved 20 February 2019 . ^ "CFG acquires majority stake in Indian Super League's Mumbai City FC" . City Football Group . City Football Group. Archived from the original on 28 November 2019 . Retrieved 28 November 2019 . ^ "Kogel is door de kerk: Lommel gaat in zee met Manchester City" [Done deal: Lommel partners with Manchester City]. sporza.be . 11 May 2020. Archived from the original on 1 June 2022 . Retrieved 11 May 2020 . ^ "Troyes AC: Manchester City owners City Football Group acquire Ligue 2 club" . Sky Sports . Archived from the original on 4 September 2020 . Retrieved 3 September 2020 . ^ "Il City Football Group rileva la maggioranza del Palermo FC" . Palermo F.C. (in Italian). Archived from the original on 4 July 2022 . Retrieved 4 July 2022 . ^ nelson.barros (3 December 2022). "Nota Oficial - Notícias Esporte Clube Bahia" . Esporte Clube Bahia . Archived from the original on 27 January 2023 . Retrieved 6 May 2023 . ^ "Club Bolivar joins City Football Group as first Partner Club" . cityfootballgroup.com . 11 January 2021. Archived from the original on 12 January 2021 . Retrieved 12 January 2021 . ^ "Vannes Olympique Club enters in a partnership with City Football Group" . Vannes Olympique Club (in French). 18 February 2021. Archived from the original on 18 February 2021 . Retrieved 18 February 2021 .

______________________________________________________________________

### City Football Group

City Football Group [ edit ] Main article: City Football Group Created in the 2013–14 season to manage the global footballing interests of the Abu Dhabi United Group , City Football Group (CFG) is an umbrella corporation owning stakes in a network of global clubs for the purposes of resource sharing, academy networking and marketing. CFG ownership [ edit ] Clubs owned by CFG Listed in order of acquisition/foundation. Bold indicates the club was founded by CFG. * indicates the club was acquired by CFG. § indicates the club is co-owned. 2008 Manchester City F.C. * 2009–2012 2013 New York City FC § 2014 Melbourne City FC * Yokohama F. Marinos * § 2015–2016 2017 Montevideo City Torque * Girona FC * § 2018 2019 Shenzhen Peng City F.C. * § Mumbai City FC * § 2020 Lommel S.K. * ES Troyes AC * 2021 2022 Palermo F.C. * § 2023 Bahia * § In addition to Manchester City, City Football Group owns stakes in a number of clubs: Melbourne City (2014–present) On 23 January 2014, it was announced that Manchester City had partnered with the Australian rugby league franchise Melbourne Storm , purchasing a majority stake in A-League team Melbourne City . On 5 August 2015, CFG bought out the Storm and acquired full ownership of the team. Yokohama F. Marinos (2014–present) On 20 May 2014, it was announced that Manchester City had partnered with the Japanese Automotive company Nissan to become a minority shareholder in Yokohama based J-League side, Yokohama F. Marinos . New York City FC (2015–present) On 21 May 2013, it was announced that Manchester City had partnered with the American baseball franchise the New York Yankees to introduce the 20th Major League Soccer expansion team, New York City FC as its majority shareholder. The club began play in the 2015 Major League Soccer season . Montevideo City Torque (2017–present) On 5 April 2017, CFG confirmed the purchase of Uruguayan second division team Montevideo City Torque . Girona (2017–present) On 23 August 2017, it was announced that CFG had acquired 44.3% of Segunda División (second tier) side Girona . Another 44.3% was held by the Girona Football Group, led by Pere Guardiola, brother of Manchester City manager Pep Guardiola . Shenzhen Peng City (2019–present) On 20 February 2019, it was announced that CFG as well as UBTECH and China Sports Capital had acquired Sichuan Jiuniu . Mumbai City (2019–present) CFG was announced as majority stakeholder of Mumbai City on Thursday 28 November 2019 after acquiring 65% of the club. Mumbai City is the professional football club based in Mumbai , competing in the Indian Super League . Lommel (2020–present) CFG was announced as a majority stakeholder of Lommel on Monday 11 May 2020, acquiring the majority (unspecified) of the club's shares. Lommel is a professional football club based in Lommel , competing in the Belgian First Division B (second tier). Troyes (2020–present) On 3 September 2020, CFG announced that they had purchased the shares of Daniel Masoni, the former owner of Ligue 2 (second tier) club Troyes , making them the majority shareholder of the French club. Palermo (2022–present) On 4 July 2022, Italian Serie B (second tier) club Palermo announced that CFG had acquired an 80% majority stake in their ownership. Bahia (2023–present) On 3 December 2022, CFG acquired 90% of Campeonato Brasileiro Série A club Bahia . The deal was finalised on 4 May 2023. Partner clubs [ edit ] Club Bolívar (2021–present) On 12 January 2021, CFG announced Bolivian club Club Bolívar as its first partner club. Vannes (2021–present) On 18 February 2021, CFG announced that French Championnat National 2 (tier 4) club Vannes would be its second partner club. ^ "The resources and power of Sheikh Mansoor makes this deal a seismic moment for the A-League" . Herald Sun. 23 January 2014. Archived from the original on 12 March 2020 . Retrieved 23 January 2014 . ^ John Stensholt (2 August 2015). "Manchester City buy out wealthy Melbourne City investors" . Australian Financial Review. Archived from the original on 8 August 2015 . Retrieved 5 August 2015 . ^ "Manchester City Pre-Season Tour 2016" (PDF) . mancity.com. Archived (PDF) from the original on 20 April 2017 . Retrieved 19 April 2017 . ^ "New Soccer Team Introduces a Director of Operations" . The New York Times . 22 May 2013. Archived from the original on 9 November 2017 . Retrieved 22 May 2013 . ^ "CFG Extends South American Footprint" . Manchester City Official Website . 5 April 2017. Archived from the original on 21 May 2017 . Retrieved 5 April 2017 . ^ "Manchester City's parent company seals deal for major stake in Girona" . The Guardian . 23 August 2017. Archived from the original on 24 August 2017 . Retrieved 24 August 2017 . ^ "曼城母公司收购四川九牛获官方宣布" . Sina.com . 20 February 2019. Archived from the original on 20 February 2019 . Retrieved 20 February 2019 . ^ "CFG acquires majority stake in Indian Super League's Mumbai City FC" . City Football Group . City Football Group. Archived from the original on 28 November 2019 . Retrieved 28 November 2019 . ^ "Kogel is door de kerk: Lommel gaat in zee met Manchester City" [Done deal: Lommel partners with Manchester City]. sporza.be . 11 May 2020. Archived from the original on 1 June 2022 . Retrieved 11 May 2020 . ^ "Troyes AC: Manchester City owners City Football Group acquire Ligue 2 club" . Sky Sports . Archived from the original on 4 September 2020 . Retrieved 3 September 2020 . ^ "Il City Football Group rileva la maggioranza del Palermo FC" . Palermo F.C. (in Italian). Archived from the original on 4 July 2022 . Retrieved 4 July 2022 . ^ nelson.barros (3 December 2022). "Nota Oficial - Notícias Esporte Clube Bahia" . Esporte Clube Bahia . Archived from the original on 27 January 2023 . Retrieved 6 May 2023 . ^ "Club Bolivar joins City Football Group as first Partner Club" . cityfootballgroup.com . 11 January 2021. Archived from the original on 12 January 2021 . Retrieved 12 January 2021 . ^ "Vannes Olympique Club enters in a partnership with City Football Group" . Vannes Olympique Club (in French). 18 February 2021. Archived from the original on 18 February 2021 . Retrieved 18 February 2021 .

______________________________________________________________________

#### CFG ownership

CFG ownership [ edit ] Clubs owned by CFG Listed in order of acquisition/foundation. Bold indicates the club was founded by CFG. * indicates the club was acquired by CFG. § indicates the club is co-owned. 2008 Manchester City F.C. * 2009–2012 2013 New York City FC § 2014 Melbourne City FC * Yokohama F. Marinos * § 2015–2016 2017 Montevideo City Torque * Girona FC * § 2018 2019 Shenzhen Peng City F.C. * § Mumbai City FC * § 2020 Lommel S.K. * ES Troyes AC * 2021 2022 Palermo F.C. * § 2023 Bahia * § In addition to Manchester City, City Football Group owns stakes in a number of clubs: Melbourne City (2014–present) On 23 January 2014, it was announced that Manchester City had partnered with the Australian rugby league franchise Melbourne Storm , purchasing a majority stake in A-League team Melbourne City . On 5 August 2015, CFG bought out the Storm and acquired full ownership of the team. Yokohama F. Marinos (2014–present) On 20 May 2014, it was announced that Manchester City had partnered with the Japanese Automotive company Nissan to become a minority shareholder in Yokohama based J-League side, Yokohama F. Marinos . New York City FC (2015–present) On 21 May 2013, it was announced that Manchester City had partnered with the American baseball franchise the New York Yankees to introduce the 20th Major League Soccer expansion team, New York City FC as its majority shareholder. The club began play in the 2015 Major League Soccer season . Montevideo City Torque (2017–present) On 5 April 2017, CFG confirmed the purchase of Uruguayan second division team Montevideo City Torque . Girona (2017–present) On 23 August 2017, it was announced that CFG had acquired 44.3% of Segunda División (second tier) side Girona . Another 44.3% was held by the Girona Football Group, led by Pere Guardiola, brother of Manchester City manager Pep Guardiola . Shenzhen Peng City (2019–present) On 20 February 2019, it was announced that CFG as well as UBTECH and China Sports Capital had acquired Sichuan Jiuniu . Mumbai City (2019–present) CFG was announced as majority stakeholder of Mumbai City on Thursday 28 November 2019 after acquiring 65% of the club. Mumbai City is the professional football club based in Mumbai , competing in the Indian Super League . Lommel (2020–present) CFG was announced as a majority stakeholder of Lommel on Monday 11 May 2020, acquiring the majority (unspecified) of the club's shares. Lommel is a professional football club based in Lommel , competing in the Belgian First Division B (second tier). Troyes (2020–present) On 3 September 2020, CFG announced that they had purchased the shares of Daniel Masoni, the former owner of Ligue 2 (second tier) club Troyes , making them the majority shareholder of the French club. Palermo (2022–present) On 4 July 2022, Italian Serie B (second tier) club Palermo announced that CFG had acquired an 80% majority stake in their ownership. Bahia (2023–present) On 3 December 2022, CFG acquired 90% of Campeonato Brasileiro Série A club Bahia . The deal was finalised on 4 May 2023. ^ "The resources and power of Sheikh Mansoor makes this deal a seismic moment for the A-League" . Herald Sun. 23 January 2014. Archived from the original on 12 March 2020 . Retrieved 23 January 2014 . ^ John Stensholt (2 August 2015). "Manchester City buy out wealthy Melbourne City investors" . Australian Financial Review. Archived from the original on 8 August 2015 . Retrieved 5 August 2015 . ^ "Manchester City Pre-Season Tour 2016" (PDF) . mancity.com. Archived (PDF) from the original on 20 April 2017 . Retrieved 19 April 2017 . ^ "New Soccer Team Introduces a Director of Operations" . The New York Times . 22 May 2013. Archived from the original on 9 November 2017 . Retrieved 22 May 2013 . ^ "CFG Extends South American Footprint" . Manchester City Official Website . 5 April 2017. Archived from the original on 21 May 2017 . Retrieved 5 April 2017 . ^ "Manchester City's parent company seals deal for major stake in Girona" . The Guardian . 23 August 2017. Archived from the original on 24 August 2017 . Retrieved 24 August 2017 . ^ "曼城母公司收购四川九牛获官方宣布" . Sina.com . 20 February 2019. Archived from the original on 20 February 2019 . Retrieved 20 February 2019 . ^ "CFG acquires majority stake in Indian Super League's Mumbai City FC" . City Football Group . City Football Group. Archived from the original on 28 November 2019 . Retrieved 28 November 2019 . ^ "Kogel is door de kerk: Lommel gaat in zee met Manchester City" [Done deal: Lommel partners with Manchester City]. sporza.be . 11 May 2020. Archived from the original on 1 June 2022 . Retrieved 11 May 2020 . ^ "Troyes AC: Manchester City owners City Football Group acquire Ligue 2 club" . Sky Sports . Archived from the original on 4 September 2020 . Retrieved 3 September 2020 . ^ "Il City Football Group rileva la maggioranza del Palermo FC" . Palermo F.C. (in Italian). Archived from the original on 4 July 2022 . Retrieved 4 July 2022 . ^ nelson.barros (3 December 2022). "Nota Oficial - Notícias Esporte Clube Bahia" . Esporte Clube Bahia . Archived from the original on 27 January 2023 . Retrieved 6 May 2023 .

______________________________________________________________________

#### Partner clubs

Partner clubs [ edit ] Club Bolívar (2021–present) On 12 January 2021, CFG announced Bolivian club Club Bolívar as its first partner club. Vannes (2021–present) On 18 February 2021, CFG announced that French Championnat National 2 (tier 4) club Vannes would be its second partner club. ^ "Club Bolivar joins City Football Group as first Partner Club" . cityfootballgroup.com . 11 January 2021. Archived from the original on 12 January 2021 . Retrieved 12 January 2021 . ^ "Vannes Olympique Club enters in a partnership with City Football Group" . Vannes Olympique Club (in French). 18 February 2021. Archived from the original on 18 February 2021 . Retrieved 18 February 2021 .

______________________________________________________________________

## Stadium

Stadium [ edit ] Main article: City of Manchester Stadium See also: Hyde Road (stadium) and Maine Road The City of Manchester Stadium – the home of Manchester City since 2003 The City of Manchester Stadium in east Manchester, known as the Etihad Stadium since 2011 for sponsorship reasons, is on a 200-year lease from Manchester City Council to Manchester City. It has been the club's home since the end of the 2002–03 season , when City moved from Maine Road . Before moving to the stadium, the club spent in excess of £30 million to convert it to football use: the pitch was lowered, adding another tier of seating around it, and a new North Stand was constructed. The inaugural match at the new stadium was a 2–1 win over Barcelona in a friendly match . A 7,000-seat third tier on the South Stand was completed in time for the start of the 2015–16 football season , increasing the stadium's capacity to 55,097. A North Stand third tier is in development, potentially increasing capacity to around 61,000. After playing home matches at five stadiums between 1880 and 1887, the club settled at Hyde Road Football Stadium , its home for 36 years. A fire destroyed the Main Stand in 1920, and the club moved to the 84,000 capacity Maine Road three years later. Maine Road, nicknamed the "Wembley of the North" by its designers, hosted the largest-ever crowd at an English club ground when 84,569 attended an FA Cup tie against Stoke City on 3 March 1934. Though Maine Road was redeveloped several times over its 80-year lifespan, by 1995 its capacity was restricted to 32,000, prompting the search for a new ground which culminated in the move to the City of Manchester Stadium in 2003; it was renamed the Etihad Stadium in 2011. In September 2024, Manchester City revealed plans to expand the North Stand of the Etihad Stadium, increasing the total capacity to 61,000. The expanded section is scheduled to open for the start of the 2025–26 season . The project also includes the construction of a hotel, office premises for club staff and a new fan zone. ^ Bailey, Chris (8 November 2006). "Why Blues must cash in on name game" . Manchester Evening News . Archived from the original on 14 October 2009 . Retrieved 22 April 2008 . ^ James, Gary (2008). Manchester – A Football History . Halifax: James Ward. p. 391. ISBN 978-0-9558127-0-5 . ^ "Man City vanquish Barca" . BBC News . 10 August 2003. Archived from the original on 6 November 2006 . Retrieved 28 December 2005 . ^ "Manchester City seek stadium expansion to hold 61,000" . Manchester: BBC News. 11 October 2013. Archived from the original on 4 February 2019 . Retrieved 29 December 2013 . ^ Inglis, Simon (1987). The Football Grounds of Great Britain (2nd ed.) . London: Collins Willow. p. 62. ISBN 0-00-218249-1 . ^ "Club History" . Manchester City F.C. Archived from the original on 7 September 2016 . Retrieved 19 April 2017 . ^ "City and Etihad: a historic day for the club" (web video) . Manchester City Football Club. 8 July 2011. Archived from the original on 7 February 2017 . Retrieved 16 November 2011 . ^ Agini, Samuel (10 November 2024). "Premier League clubs target stadium upgrades to boost revenues" . Financial Times . Retrieved 12 November 2024 .

______________________________________________________________________

## Honours

Honours [ edit ] Main article: List of Manchester City F.C. records and statistics § Club honours Based on trophy count, Manchester City are one of the most successful teams in England – their thirty-six major domestic, European and worldwide honours rank them fourth on the list of most decorated sides in England, ahead of Chelsea with 34. The club's first major trophy was the 1904 FA Cup , though they had previously won three regional Manchester Cups before that point. Their first top division league title came in the 1936–37 season , with the first Charity Shield won in the following August. City's first League Cup and European trophy both came at the end of the 1969–70 season , the two trophies also constituting the team's first double of any kind. In the 2018–19 season , City became the first team to claim all of the major English trophies available in a single season, winning not just the Premier League , FA Cup , and League Cup , but also the Community Shield . The 1970 Cup Winners' Cup victory remained City's only European trophy until their triumph in the 2022–23 UEFA Champions League . They have reached the semi-finals of the Champions League four times overall, losing in 2016 , then winning en route to their first-ever final in 2021 , losing in 2022 , and winning en route to their maiden European Cup title in 2023 . Manchester City jointly held the record for most second division titles with Leicester City , both clubs having won the league on seven occasions, before Leicester clinched their eighth title in 2023–24 . Man City's first victory was in 1898–99 , and the most recent in 2001–02 . Manchester City's honours Type Competition Titles Seasons Domestic First Division / Premier League 10 1936–37 , 1967–68 , 2011–12 , 2013–14 , 2017–18 , 2018–19 , 2020–21 , 2021–22 , 2022–23 , 2023–24 Second Division 7 1898–99 , 1902–03 , 1909–10 , 1927–28 , 1946–47 , 1965–66 , 2001–02 FA Cup 7 1903–04 , 1933–34 , 1955–56 , 1968–69 , 2010–11 , 2018–19 , 2022–23 Football League Cup/EFL Cup 8 1969–70 , 1975–76 , 2013–14 , 2015–16 , 2017–18 , 2018–19 , 2019–20 , 2020–21 FA Charity Shield/FA Community Shield 7 1937 , 1968 , 1972 , 2012 , 2018 , 2019 , 2024 Continental European Cup/UEFA Champions League 1 2022–23 European Cup Winners' Cup 1 1969–70 UEFA Super Cup 1 2023 Worldwide FIFA Club World Cup 1 2023 Doubles and Trebles [ edit ] Doubles League and UEFA Champions League (1): 2022–23 League and FA Cup (2): 2018–19 , 2022–23 League and League Cup (4): 2013–14 , 2017–18 , 2018–19 , 2020–21 League Cup and European Cup Winners' Cup (1): 1969–70 Continental treble League, FA Cup, and UEFA Champions League (1): 2022–23 Domestic treble League, FA Cup, and League Cup (1): 2018–19 ^ "1904 Manchester City" . Match report at fa-cupfinals.co.uk . FA-CupFinals.co.uk. Archived from the original on 20 July 2009 . Retrieved 23 September 2009 . ^ "10 things you need to know about the Manchester clubs' humble beginnings" . FourFourTwo . 31 October 2014. Archived from the original on 14 October 2019 . Retrieved 14 October 2019 . ^ a b c d Cite error: The named reference mcfcoffhist was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ "Man City win treble - how impressive is that achievement?" . BBC Sport . 18 May 2019. Archived from the original on 18 May 2019 . Retrieved 14 October 2019 . ^ "EUROPEAN CUP WINNERS CUP FINAL HIGHLIGHTS: CITY 2-1 GORNIK ZABRZE" . mancity.com . Manchester City FC. 29 April 2020. Archived from the original on 30 April 2021 . Retrieved 27 March 2021 . ^ Cite error: The named reference UEFA was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ Murray, Scott (4 May 2016). "Real Madrid 1–0 Manchester City (agg 1–0): Champions League semi-final – as it happened" . The Guardian . London. Archived from the original on 4 January 2022 . Retrieved 9 January 2022 . ^ Hytner, David (10 June 2023). "Rodri breaks Internazionale resistance to seal Manchester City's treble glory" . The Guardian . Archived from the original on 10 June 2023 . Retrieved 10 June 2023 . ^ "England - List of Second Division Champions" . RSSSF . Archived from the original on 8 October 2019 . Retrieved 14 October 2019 . Cite error: There are <ref group=nb> tags on this page, but the references will not show without a {{reflist|group=nb}} template (see the help page ). Cite error: There are <ref group=lower-alpha> tags or {{efn}} templates on this page, but the references will not show without a {{reflist|group=lower-alpha}} template or {{notelist}} template (see the help page ).

______________________________________________________________________

### Doubles and Trebles

Doubles and Trebles [ edit ] Doubles League and UEFA Champions League (1): 2022–23 League and FA Cup (2): 2018–19 , 2022–23 League and League Cup (4): 2013–14 , 2017–18 , 2018–19 , 2020–21 League Cup and European Cup Winners' Cup (1): 1969–70 Continental treble League, FA Cup, and UEFA Champions League (1): 2022–23 Domestic treble League, FA Cup, and League Cup (1): 2018–19 Cite error: There are <ref group=lower-alpha> tags or {{efn}} templates on this page, but the references will not show without a {{reflist|group=lower-alpha}} template or {{notelist}} template (see the help page ).

______________________________________________________________________

## Club records

Club records [ edit ] Main article: List of Manchester City F.C. records and statistics Record league victory – 11–3 vs Lincoln City (23 March 1895, most goals scored); 10–0 vs Darwen (18 February 1899, widest margin of victory) Record FA Cup victory – 12–0 vs Liverpool Stanley (4 October 1890) Record European victory – 7–0 vs Schalke 04 , UEFA Champions League round of 16 second leg (12 March 2019); 7–0 vs RB Leipzig UEFA Champions League round of 16 second leg (14 March 2023) Record league defeat – 0–8 vs Burton Wanderers (26 December 1894); 0–8 vs Wolverhampton Wanderers (23 December 1933); 1–9 vs Everton (3 September 1906); 2–10 vs Small Heath (17 March 1893) Record FA Cup defeat – 0–6 vs Preston North End (30 January 1897); 2–8 vs Bradford Park Avenue (30 January 1946) Record European defeat – 0–4 vs Barcelona , UEFA Champions League group stage (19 October 2016) Highest home attendance – 84,569 vs Stoke City , FA Cup sixth round (3 March 1934) Most league appearances – 561 + 3 sub, Alan Oakes , 1958–76 Most European / worldwide appearances – 64 + 15 sub, Bernardo Silva , 2017–present Most appearances overall – 676 + 4 sub, Alan Oakes, 1958–76 Most goals scored overall – 260, Sergio Agüero , 2011–21 Most goals scored in a season – 52, Erling Haaland , 2022–23 Record transfer fee paid – £100 million to Aston Villa for Jack Grealish , August 2021 Record transfer fee received – £82 million from Atlético Madrid for Julián Álvarez , August 2024 ^ a b c d e f g James, Gary (2006). Manchester City – The Complete Record . Derby: Breedon. ISBN 1-85983-512-0 . ^ "Manchester City 7–0 Schalke: Champions League at a glance" . UEFA. 12 March 2019. Archived from the original on 14 November 2019 . Retrieved 7 October 2019 . ^ "Manchester City FC" . UEFA. Archived from the original on 14 November 2019 . Retrieved 7 October 2019 . ^ "Sergio Agüero" . Manchester City F.C. Archived from the original on 16 February 2018 . Retrieved 17 February 2018 . ^ Cite error: The named reference Clayton was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ "Record-breaking Haaland hits five in City rout" . ESPN.com . 14 March 2023. Archived from the original on 14 March 2023 . Retrieved 7 May 2023 . ^ Hytner, David (5 August 2021). " 'Dream come true': Jack Grealish seals record £100m Manchester City move" . The Guardian . Archived from the original on 5 August 2021 . Retrieved 5 August 2021 . ^ "Julian Alvarez transfer: Atletico Madrid agree £82m fee to sign Man City and Argentina forward" . Sky Sports . 6 August 2024 . Retrieved 9 August 2024 . Cite error: There are <ref group=lower-alpha> tags or {{efn}} templates on this page, but the references will not show without a {{reflist|group=lower-alpha}} template or {{notelist}} template (see the help page ).

______________________________________________________________________

## See also

See also [ edit ] Association football portal English football portal Greater Manchester portal List of Manchester City F.C. seasons Manchester City F.C. in international football List of world champion football clubs

______________________________________________________________________

## Notes

Notes [ edit ]

______________________________________________________________________

## Bibliography

Bibliography [ edit ] Buckley, Andy; Burgess, Richard (2000). Blue Moon Rising: The Fall and Rise of Manchester City . Bury: Milo. ISBN 0-9530847-4-4 . Gardner, Peter (1970). The Manchester City Football Book No. 2 . London: Stanley Paul. ISBN 0-09-103280-6 . Inglis, Simon (1987). The Football Grounds of Great Britain (2nd ed.) . London: Collins Willow. ISBN 0-00-218249-1 . James, Gary (2002). Manchester: The Greatest City . Polar Publishing. ISBN 1-899538-09-7 . James, Gary (2005). The Official Manchester City Hall of Fame . Hamlyn. ISBN 0-600-61282-1 . James, Gary (2006). Manchester City – The Complete Record . Derby: Breedon. ISBN 1-85983-512-0 . James, Gary (2008). Manchester – A Football History . Halifax: James Ward. ISBN 978-0-9558127-0-5 . Penney, Ian (2008). Manchester City: The Mercer-Allison Years . Derby: Breedon. ISBN 978-1-85983-608-8 . Rowlands, Alan (2005). Trautmann: The Biography . Derby: Breedon. ISBN 1-85983-491-4 . Tossell, David (2008). Big Mal: The High Life and Hard Times of Malcolm Allison, Football Legend . Edinburgh: Mainstream. ISBN 978-1-84596-478-8 . Wallace, David (2007). Century City – Manchester City Football Club 1957/58 . Leigh: King of the Kippax. ISBN 978-0-9557056-0-1 . Ward, Andrew (1984). The Manchester City Story . Derby: Breedon. ISBN 0-907969-05-4 .

______________________________________________________________________

## References

References [ edit ]

______________________________________________________________________

## External links

External links [ edit ] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Manchester City FC . Wikinews has news related to: Manchester City F.C. Official website Manchester City F.C. on BBC Sport : Club news – Recent results and fixtures Manchester City F.C. at ScoreShelf (archived on 15 September 2015) Manchester City F.C. at UEFA Listen to this article ( 28 minutes ) This audio file was created from a revision of this article dated 21 May 2007 ( 2007-05-21 ) , and does not reflect subsequent edits. ( Audio help · More spoken articles ) v t e Manchester City Football Club Ownership and finances EDS & Academy Seasons Records & statistics Honours Continental record Current season History Overview 1880–1928 1928–1965 1965–2001 2001–present People Players 100+ appearances 25–99 appearances 1–24 appearances Managers Supporters Grounds Early grounds (1880–1887) Hyde Road (1887–1923) Maine Road (1923–2003) Etihad Stadium (2003–present) Reserve grounds Academy Stadium Training grounds Carrington Training Centre (2001–2014) Etihad Campus (2014–present) Football teams First team Elite Development Squad Academy Women Women's Development Squad Affiliated football teams under CFG EC Bahia Girona FC Lommel S.K. Melbourne City FC Montevideo City Torque Mumbai City FC New York City FC Palermo FC Shenzhen Peng City F.C. Troyes AC Yokohama F. Marinos Affiliated academies Sun Jihai Youth Training Football Base Media Media All or Nothing: Manchester City Blue Moon Rising Football Mania "Man City" ( Ted Lasso episode) "Mom City" ( Ted Lasso episode) The Keeper There's Only One Jimmy Grimble Rivalries League record by opponent Manchester City rivalries Manchester derby Liverpool rivalry Arsenal rivalry Schools Connell Sixth Form College Related articles English football bribery scandal Revie Plan The Kippax The Poznań " Blue Moon " " Roll With It " Famous matches Maine Road F.C. Category v t e City Football Group People Sheikh Mansour Khaldoon Al Mubarak Ferran Soriano Shareholders Abu Dhabi United Group (81%) Silver Lake (18%) China Media Capital / CITIC Group (1%) Men's teams Esporte Clube Bahia Girona FC Lommel S.K. Manchester City F.C. Melbourne City FC Montevideo City Torque Mumbai City FC New York City FC Palermo FC Shenzhen Peng City F.C. ES Troyes AC Yokohama F. Marinos Women's teams Esporte Clube Bahia Feminino Girona FC Femení A Girona FC Femení B Manchester City Women Melbourne City Women Troyes AC Féminine Development teams Esporte Clube Bahia U-23 Girona B Manchester City EDS Manchester City Girls' Academy Melbourne City Youth Mumbai City FC Reserves and Academy New York City FC II New York City FC Academy Troyes AC Reserves Affiliated teams Club Bolívar Geylang International FC İstanbul Başakşehir F.K. Vannes OC Owned stadiums Academy Stadium (Manchester) Etihad Park (New York, under construction) City Football Academies Etihad Campus (Manchester) City Football Academy (Bolivia) City Football Academy (Durrës) City Football Academy (2015) (Melbourne, former) City Football Academy (2022) (Melbourne, current) City Football Academy (Montevideo) City Football Academy (New York) Businesses Goals Soccer Centers (United States) Links to related articles v t e Manchester City F.C. – current squad 3 Dias 5 Stones 6 Aké 7 Marmoush 8 Kovačić 9 Haaland 10 Grealish 11 Doku 14 González 16 Rodri 17 De Bruyne 18 Ortega 19 Gündoğan 20 Silva 22 Reis 24 Gvardiol 25 Akanji 26 Savinho 27 Nunes 30 Echeverri 31 Ederson 33 Carson 45 Khusanov 47 Foden 52 Bobb 75 O'Reilly 82 Lewis 87 McAtee Manager: Guardiola v t e Manchester City F.C. seasons Ardwick A.F.C. 1887–88 1888–89 1889–90 1890–91 1891–92 1892–93 1893–94 Manchester City F.C. 1894–95 1895–96 1896–97 1897–98 1898–99 1899–1900 1900–01 1901–02 1902–03 1903–04 1904–05 1905–06 1906–07 1907–08 1908–09 1909–10 1910–11 1911–12 1912–13 1913–14 1914–15 1915–16 1916–17 1917–18 1918–19 1919–20 1920–21 1921–22 1922–23 1923–24 1924–25 1925–26 1926–27 1927–28 1928–29 1929–30 1930–31 1931–32 1932–33 1933–34 1934–35 1935–36 1936–37 1937–38 1938–39 1939–40 1940–41 1941–42 1942–43 1943–44 1944–45 1945–46 1946–47 1947–48 1948–49 1949–50 1950–51 1951–52 1952–53 1953–54 1954–55 1955–56 1956–57 1957–58 1958–59 1959–60 1960–61 1961–62 1962–63 1963–64 1964–65 1965–66 1966–67 1967–68 1968–69 1969–70 1970–71 1971–72 1972–73 1973–74 1974–75 1975–76 1976–77 1977–78 1978–79 1979–80 1980–81 1981–82 1982–83 1983–84 1984–85 1985–86 1986–87 1987–88 1988–89 1989–90 1990–91 1991–92 1992–93 1993–94 1994–95 1995–96 1996–97 1997–98 1998–99 1999–2000 2000–01 2001–02 2002–03 2003–04 2004–05 2005–06 2006–07 2007–08 2008–09 2009–10 2010–11 2011–12 2012–13 2013–14 2014–15 2015–16 2016–17 2017–18 2018–19 2019–20 2020–21 2021–22 2022–23 2023–24 2024–25 2025–26 v t e Manchester City F.C. matches Domestic FA Cup Finals 1904 1926 1933 1934 1955 1956 1969 1981 2011 2013 2019 2023 2024 2025 Other vs Tottenham Hotspur 4–3 (2004) Premier League vs Manchester United 3–4 (2009) vs Manchester United 6–1 (2011) vs Queens Park Rangers 3–2 (2012) EFL Cup Finals 1970 1974 1976 2014 2016 2018 2019 2020 2021 Full Members' Cup Final 1986 FA Community Shield 1934 1937 1956 1968 1969 1972 1973 2011 2012 2014 2018 2019 2021 2022 2023 2024 EFL play-offs 1999 Second Division International UEFA Champions League Finals 2021 2023 European Cup Winners' Cup Final 1970 UEFA Super Cup 2023 FIFA Club World Cup Final 2023 v t e Manchester City F.C. – managers Hopkinson ( 1880 –82) Kitchen ( 1884 –87) Chew ( 1887 –89) Furniss ( 1889 –93) Parlby ( 1893 –95) Ormerod ( 1895 –1902) Maley ( 1902 –06) Newbould ( 1906 –12) Committee ( 1912 ) Mangnall ( 1912 –24) Ashworth ( 1924 –25) Committee (overseen by Albert Alexander Sr. ) ( 1925 –26) Hodge ( 1926 –32) Wild ( 1932 –46) Cowan ( 1946 –47) Wild c ( 1947 ) Thomson ( 1947 –50) McDowall ( 1950 –63) Poyser ( 1963 –65) Committee ( 1965 ) Mercer ( 1965 –71) Allison ( 1971 –73) Hart ( 1973 ) Book c ( 1973 ) Saunders ( 1973 –74) Book ( 1974 –79) Allison ( 1979 –80) Book c ( 1980 ) Bond ( 1980 –83) Benson ( 1983 ) McNeill ( 1983 –86) Frizzell ( 1986 –87) Machin ( 1987 –89) Book c ( 1989 ) Kendall ( 1989 –90) Reid ( 1990 –93) Book c ( 1993 ) Horton ( 1993 –95) Hartford c ( 1996 ) Ball ( 1995 –96) Coppell ( 1996 ) Neal c ( 1996 ) Clark ( 1996 –98) Royle ( 1998 –2001) Keegan ( 2001 –05) Pearce ( 2005 –07) Eriksson ( 2007 –08) Hughes ( 2008 –09) Mancini ( 2009 –13) Kidd c ( 2013 ) Pellegrini ( 2013 –16) Guardiola ( 2016 –) (c) = caretaker manager v t e Manchester City F.C. – Hall of Fame inductees 2004 Bell Book Brook Clarke Corrigan Doherty Johnson Lake Lee Meredith Paul Quinn Summerbee Swift Trautmann 2005 Allison Barnes Cowan Mercer Oakes 2006 1956 FA Cup Final XI Doyle Goater Hart Toseland 2008 Tilson Williams Young 2009 Rösler v t e Manchester City F.C. Player of the Year 1967: Book 1968: Bell 1969: Pardoe 1970: Lee 1971: Doyle 1972: Summerbee 1973: Summerbee 1974: Doyle 1975: Oakes 1976: Corrigan 1977: Watson 1978: Corrigan 1979: Hartford 1980: Corrigan 1981: Power 1982: Caton 1983: Bond 1984: McCarthy 1985: Power 1986: Clements 1987: McNab 1988: Redmond 1989: McNab 1990: Hendry 1991: Quinn 1992: Coton 1993: Flitcroft 1994: Coton 1995: Rösler 1996: Kinkladze 1997: Kinkladze 1998: Brown 1999: Wiekens 2000: Goater 2001: Tiatto 2002: Benarbia 2003: Distin 2004: Wright-Phillips 2005: Dunne 2006: Dunne 2007: Dunne 2008: Dunne 2009: Ireland 2010: Tevez 2011: Kompany 2012: Agüero 2013: Zabaleta 2014: Touré 2015: Agüero 2016: De Bruyne 2017: D. Silva 2018: De Bruyne 2019: B. Silva 2020: De Bruyne 2021: Dias 2022: De Bruyne 2023: Haaland 2024: Foden v t e European Cup and UEFA Champions League winners European Cup era, 1955–1992 1950s 1955–56 : Real Madrid 1956–57 : Real Madrid 1957–58 : Real Madrid 1958–59 : Real Madrid 1959–60 : Real Madrid 1960s 1960–61 : Benfica 1961–62 : Benfica 1962–63 : Milan 1963–64 : Inter Milan 1964–65 : Inter Milan 1965–66 : Real Madrid 1966–67 : Celtic 1967–68 : Manchester United 1968–69 : Milan 1969–70 : Feyenoord 1970s 1970–71 : Ajax 1971–72 : Ajax 1972–73 : Ajax 1973–74 : Bayern Munich 1974–75 : Bayern Munich 1975–76 : Bayern Munich 1976–77 : Liverpool 1977–78 : Liverpool 1978–79 : Nottingham Forest 1979–80 : Nottingham Forest 1980s 1980–81 : Liverpool 1981–82 : Aston Villa 1982–83 : Hamburger SV 1983–84 : Liverpool 1984–85 : Juventus 1985–86 : Steaua București 1986–87 : Porto 1987–88 : PSV 1988–89 : Milan 1989–90 : Milan 1990s 1990–91 : Red Star Belgrade 1991–92 : Barcelona UEFA Champions League era, 1992–present 1990s 1992–93 : Marseille 1993–94 : Milan 1994–95 : Ajax 1995–96 : Juventus 1996–97 : Borussia Dortmund 1997–98 : Real Madrid 1998–99 : Manchester United 1999–2000 : Real Madrid 2000s 2000–01 : Bayern Munich 2001–02 : Real Madrid 2002–03 : Milan 2003–04 : Porto 2004–05 : Liverpool 2005–06 : Barcelona 2006–07 : Milan 2007–08 : Manchester United 2008–09 : Barcelona 2009–10 : Inter Milan 2010s 2010–11 : Barcelona 2011–12 : Chelsea 2012–13 : Bayern Munich 2013–14 : Real Madrid 2014–15 : Barcelona 2015–16 : Real Madrid 2016–17 : Real Madrid 2017–18 : Real Madrid 2018–19 : Liverpool 2019–20 : Bayern Munich 2020s 2020–21 : Chelsea 2021–22 : Real Madrid 2022–23 : Manchester City 2023–24 : Real Madrid 2024–25 : Paris Saint-Germain Finals Winning managers v t e UEFA Cup Winners' Cup winners 1960s 1960–61 : Fiorentina 1961–62 : Atlético Madrid 1962–63 : Tottenham Hotspur 1963–64 : Sporting CP 1964–65 : West Ham United 1965–66 : Borussia Dortmund 1966–67 : Bayern Munich 1967–68 : AC Milan 1968–69 : Slovan Bratislava 1969–70 : Manchester City 1970s 1970–71 : Chelsea 1971–72 : Rangers 1972–73 : AC Milan 1973–74 : 1. FC Magdeburg 1974–75 : Dynamo Kyiv 1975–76 : Anderlecht 1976–77 : Hamburger SV 1977–78 : Anderlecht 1978–79 : Barcelona 1979–80 : Valencia 1980s 1980–81 : Dinamo Tbilisi 1981–82 : Barcelona 1982–83 : Aberdeen 1983–84 : Juventus 1984–85 : Everton 1985–86 : Dynamo Kyiv 1986–87 : Ajax 1987–88 : Mechelen 1988–89 : Barcelona 1989–90 : Sampdoria 1990s 1990–91 : Manchester United 1991–92 : Werder Bremen 1992–93 : Parma 1993–94 : Arsenal 1994–95 : Zaragoza 1995–96 : Paris Saint-Germain 1996–97 : Barcelona 1997–98 : Chelsea 1998–99 : Lazio v t e UEFA Super Cup winners UCL vs. CWC 1973 : Ajax 1975 : Dynamo Kyiv 1976 : Anderlecht 1977 : Liverpool 1978 : Anderlecht 1979 : Nottingham Forest 1980 : Valencia 1982 : Aston Villa 1983 : Aberdeen 1984 : Juventus 1986 : Steaua București 1987 : Porto 1988 : Mechelen 1989 : Milan 1990 : Milan 1991 : Manchester United 1992 : Barcelona 1993 : Parma 1994 : Milan 1995 : Ajax 1996 : Juventus 1997 : Barcelona 1998 : Chelsea 1999 : Lazio UCL vs. UEL 2000 : Galatasaray 2001 : Liverpool 2002 : Real Madrid 2003 : Milan 2004 : Valencia 2005 : Liverpool 2006 : Sevilla 2007 : Milan 2008 : Zenit St. Petersburg 2009 : Barcelona 2010 : Atlético Madrid 2011 : Barcelona 2012 : Atlético Madrid 2013 : Bayern Munich 2014 : Real Madrid 2015 : Barcelona 2016 : Real Madrid 2017 : Real Madrid 2018 : Atlético Madrid 2019 : Liverpool 2020 : Bayern Munich 2021 : Chelsea 2022 : Real Madrid 2023 : Manchester City 2024 : Real Madrid Winning managers v t e FIFA Club World Cup winners 2000s 2000 : Corinthians 2001 : Cancelled 2005 : São Paulo 2006 : Internacional 2007 : AC Milan 2008 : Manchester United 2009 : Barcelona 2010s 2010 : Inter Milan 2011 : Barcelona 2012 : Corinthians 2013 : Bayern Munich 2014 : Real Madrid 2015 : Barcelona 2016 : Real Madrid 2017 : Real Madrid 2018 : Real Madrid 2019 : Liverpool 2020s 2020 : Bayern Munich 2021 : Chelsea 2022 : Real Madrid 2023 : Manchester City v t e Premier League Seasons 1992–93 1993–94 1994–95 1995–96 1996–97 1997–98 1998–99 1999–2000 2000–01 2001–02 2002–03 2003–04 2004–05 2005–06 2006–07 2007–08 2008–09 2009–10 2010–11 2011–12 2012–13 2013–14 2014–15 2015–16 2016–17 2017–18 2018–19 2019–20 2020–21 2021–22 2022–23 2023–24 2024–25 2025–26 2026–27 Clubs 2025–26 Arsenal Aston Villa Bournemouth Brentford Brighton & Hove Albion Burnley Chelsea Crystal Palace Everton Fulham Leeds United Liverpool Manchester City Manchester United Newcastle United Nottingham Forest Sunderland Tottenham Hotspur West Ham United Wolverhampton Wanderers Former Barnsley Birmingham City Blackburn Rovers Blackpool Bolton Wanderers Bradford City Cardiff City Charlton Athletic Coventry City Derby County Huddersfield Town Hull City Ipswich Town Leicester City Luton Town Middlesbrough Norwich City Oldham Athletic Portsmouth Queens Park Rangers Reading Sheffield United Sheffield Wednesday Southampton Stoke City Swansea City Swindon Town Watford West Bromwich Albion Wigan Athletic Wimbledon (defunct) Competition Teams winners performance record Big Six Players foreign foreign scorers winners Managers current Stadiums Founding Broadcasters overseas in the U.S. Productions Referees Statistics and awards Records All-time table Hat-tricks Highest scores Golden Boot Golden Glove Manager of the Season Player of the Season Young Player of the Season Playmaker of the Season Goal of the Season Save of the Season Game Changer of the Season Most Powerful Goal Manager of the Month Player of the Month Goal of the Month Save of the Month Players with 100+ goals Players with 500+ appearances Top scorers by season Goalkeepers with 100+ clean sheets Goalkeepers who have scored a goal 10 Seasons Awards 20 Seasons Awards Hall of Fame Finances Richest clubs: Deloitte list Forbes list Team owners Transfer records Game 39 Premier League–Football League gulf Parachute and solidarity payments Associated competitions Fantasy Premier League Asia Trophy FA Community Shield FA Cup EFL Cup UEFA Champions League UEFA Europa League UEFA Conference League Premier League 2 Premier League Cup Premier Reserve League (defunct) U18 Premier League Premier League International Cup Summer Series Related media Fever Pitch: The Rise of the Premier League Category v t e Football in Greater Manchester Manchester FA Clubs ( List of ) Premier League & Football League ( tiers 1–4) 1 Manchester City Manchester United 2 None 3 Bolton Wanderers Stockport County Wigan Athletic 4 Oldham Athletic Salford City Non-League ( tiers 5–11) 5 Altrincham Rochdale 6 Curzon Ashton Radcliffe 7 Ashton United F.C. United of Manchester Hyde United 8 Atherton Collieries Avro Bury Mossley Stalybridge Celtic Trafford Wythenshawe Wythenshawe Town 9 Abbey Hey Chadderton Cheadle Town Irlam Prestwich Heys Ramsbottom United Stockport Town West Didsbury & Chorlton 10 Ashton Athletic Ashton Town Atherton Laburnum Rovers Cheadle Heath Nomads Daisy Hill Droylsden Maine Road Stockport Georgians 11 Eagley Competitions Manchester Premier Cup Manchester Senior Cup Venues Boundary Park Bower Fold Brick Community Stadium Broadhurst Park Butcher's Arms Ground City of Manchester Stadium Edgeley Park Ewen Fields Gigg Lane Moor Lane Moss Lane Old Trafford Spotland Stadium Toughsheet Community Stadium Vestacare Stadium Other topics Manchester derby Authority control databases International ISNI VIAF National Germany United States Japan Czech Republic Artists MusicBrainz

______________________________________________________________________
