# WIKIPEDIA ARTICLE: Paris_Saint-Germain_FC

## TABLE OF CONTENTS

1 History
1.1 Creation and split (1970–1973)
1.2 Top-flight return and Parc des Princes move (1973–1978)
1.3 First major honours and decline (1978–1991)
1.4 Canal+ takeover and golden era (1991–1998)
1.5 Crisis mode and relegation battles (1998–2011)
1.6 QSI ownership, record spending and domestic dominance (2011–2024)
1.7 Mbappé's departure and first Champions League win (2024–present)
2 Identity
2.1 Colours and mascot
2.2 Anthems and mottos
2.3 Distinctive shirts
2.4 Crest evolution
2.5 Friendly tournaments
3 Grounds
3.1 Stadiums
3.2 Training facilities
4 Records and statistics
5 Supporters
6 Rivalries
6.1 Le Classique
7 Ownership and finances
8 Honours
9 Players
9.1 Current squad
9.2 Out on loan
10 Personnel
10.1 Management
10.2 Technical staff
11 References
12 External links

# FULL CONTENT

## History

History [ edit ] Main article: History of Paris Saint-Germain FC Creation and split (1970–1973) [ edit ] Guy Crescent (pictured), Pierre-Étienne Guyot and Henri Patrelle founded PSG in 1970. In the summer of 1970, an ambitious group of businessmen decided to create a major team in the French capital. Guy Crescent and Pierre-Étienne Guyot chose to merge their virtual side, Paris FC , created in 1969, with Stade Saint-Germain of Henri Patrelle after the team from Saint-Germain-en-Laye , 15 km west of Paris and founded in 1904, won promotion to Division 2 . However, the three men were stuck with the financial feasibility of the project until they met Real Madrid president Santiago Bernabéu . He told them that starting a crowdfunding campaign was the best solution to establish a new team. 20,000 people backed the project and Paris Saint-Germain were formed on 17 June 1970. Guyot was elected the club's first president a few days later. For the first time in French football history, the fans had financially contributed in the making of a club. The merger was made official following the creation of the club's association on 12 August 1970. PSG retains this day as their foundation date. Paris FC contributed with the financial backing, while Stade Saint-Germain provided the sporting infrastructure, from the Division 2 status to the Camp des Loges training center, as well as the manager Pierre Phelipon and most of the players, including Bernard Guignedoux , Michel Prost and Camille Choquier . PSG further strengthened their squad with the signing of Jean Djorkaeff , captain of the French national team . PSG's first official game was a 1–1 league draw away to Poitiers on 23 August 1970. Guignedoux scored the club's first ever goal from a free-kick. The club went on to clinch promotion to Division 1 and claim the Division 2 title in its inaugural season . PSG's first top-flight season ended with a safe 16th place , meaning they would stay in Division 1 next year, but behind the scenes the club was in a delicate financial situation. Back in September 1971, the Paris City Council offered 850k francs to pay the club's debt and save its place in the elite, demanding PSG in return to adopt the more Parisian name "Paris Football Club." Crescent, who had replaced Guyot as club president before the start of the season, was in favor of the name change, but Patrelle was against it. The disagreement led to Crescent's resignation in December 1971, handing the presidency to Patrelle. The latter tried to persuade the council to reconsider their position, but they remained inflexible and the club split on 1 June 1972, a few days after the last match of the campaign. Backed by the council, Crescent re-formed Paris FC and remained in Division 1, while the PSG of Patrelle were administratively relegated to Division 3 , thus losing professional status. Top-flight return and Parc des Princes move (1973–1978) [ edit ] Just Fontaine helped Paris Saint-Germain return to Division 1 in 1974. Paris Saint-Germain really took flight with the arrival of fashion designer Daniel Hechter as chairman of the management committee in June 1973. Besides offering his financial support to the club, he also designed the team's classic home outfit. Hechter then shocked the national game ahead of 1973–74 by appointing French legend Just Fontaine as sporting director. Robert Vicot 's men finished second in Group B , four points behind Red Star , qualifying for the promotion play–offs against Valenciennes . PSG lost 1–2 away to Valenciennes, but PSG recorded an incredible 4–2 comeback at the Parc des Princes , thus achieving promotion to Division 1 and regaining its professional status abandoned two years earlier. Overwhelmed by emotion, Fontaine collapsed on the lawn and was then carried by the players in celebration. Since then, PSG have always played in the first tier of French football. PSG played their first game at the Parc des Princes during this campaign. It was against fellow Parisian side Red Star on 10 November 1973. PSG won 3–1 and Othniel Dossevi scored the club's first goal at the stadium. The Parisians also began their tradition of brilliant Coupe de France runs, reaching the quarterfinals after beating Metz at the Parc in front of 25,000 spectators (2–1; 4–1 on aggregate). In an ironic turn of events, Paris FC were relegated to Division 2 at the same time as Paris Saint-Germain moved up to the top flight in 1974, leaving their home stadium, the Parc des Princes , in the hands of their estranged Parisian brothers. Since then, the Parc has been the home of PSG. With promotion to Division 1 also came a change of command. Daniel Hechter , then chairman of the management committee, took over as club president in June 1974 following the resignation of Patrelle. He named Francis Borelli as vice-president. Under Hechter's tenure, the Parisians failed to win any silverware in the 1970s but began their tradition of brilliant Coupe de France runs, established themselves in Division 1, and attracted several prestigious players, including Jean-Pierre Dogliani , Mustapha Dahleb and Carlos Bianchi . After Hechter was banned for life from football by the French Football Federation in January 1978, for running a ticketing scheme at the Parc des Princes, Francis Borelli, who had been vice-president until then, became the new boss of the Île-de-France club. First major honours and decline (1978–1991) [ edit ] Dominique Rocheteau scored one of the club's most iconic goals ever. Following the arrival of manager Georges Peyroche in November 1979, the club established itself as a top-half team and then welcomed its first major honour when the Parisians reached their first French Cup final in 1982. Up against the great Saint-Étienne of Michel Platini at the Parc des Princes , Nambatingue Toko opened the scoring for PSG following a good cross from Ivica Šurjak . Saint-Étienne reacted and Platini equalized to send the game to extra-time. Platini then doubled his personal account, giving the Greens the lead. The Parc des Princes faithful no longer believed in their team when Dominique Rocheteau , after yet another assist from Šurjak, scored an unexpected equalizer in the last seconds of the match. PSG fans invaded the field in joy, while club president Francis Borelli kneeled and kissed the lawn of the Parc. Following an interruption of 30 minutes, the penalty shootout sealed PSG's coronation. Dominique Baratelli stopped Saint-Étienne's last attempt and Jean-Marc Pilorget scored the winning penalty for the capital side. This success opened the doors to Europe, where PSG made an impressive continental debut in reaching the quarterfinals of the 1982–83 European Cup Winners' Cup . On the domestic scene, results were just as satisfying. PSG captured their first podium finish, coming in third place , and repeated the feat in the 1983 Coupe de France Final , this time against Nantes . Recently crowned French champions, the Canaries were headed for the league-cup double, leading at the break after overturning Pascal Zaremba 's early strike. But PSG managed their own comeback in the second half as Sušić equalized and then assisted Toko for the winning goal (3–2). The campaign ended on a sad note, though, as Georges Peyroche left the club. Three years later, under the guidance of manager Gérard Houllier , PSG claimed their maiden league crown in 1985–86 . They dominated the championship from start to finish thanks in big part to the likes of Joël Bats , Dominique Bathenay , Luis Fernandez , Dominique Rocheteau and Safet Sušić , all of whom made up the backbone of the team. The victory away to Toulouse on Matchday 3 meant PSG sat at the top of the table for the first time ever, a spot they never relinquished, going a memorable 26 matches without defeat towards the title. The follow-up to the league title was not as glorious though. Defending champions PSG finished the league in seventh place , suffered an early exit from the French Cup and were knocked out by Czech minnows Vítkovice in the first round of a disappointing European Cup debut . The following year, PSG avoided relegation on the final match of the 1987–88 season thanks to a dramatic 0–1 win away to Le Havre . Highly indebted, the club briefly bounced back, fighting for the 1988–89 league crown with Marseille , before going into decline. Canal+ takeover and golden era (1991–1998) [ edit ] George Weah during his playing days at Paris Saint-Germain The takeover by television giants Canal+ in 1991 revitalised Paris Saint-Germain as they became one of the richest clubs in France. Canal+ wiped out PSG's huge debt and appointed Michel Denisot , journalist on the channel, as club president in place of Francis Borelli. Now enjoying serious investment, the Red and Blues were able to set their sights steadily higher: they had to qualify for European competitions in their first season and become French champions within three years. In consequence, Canal+ increased the club's budget from 90 to 120 million francs in order to build a strong squad for the 1991–92 season. The revolution began with the appointment of renowned coach Artur Jorge , famous for leading Porto to the 1986–87 European Cup trophy. The club then embarked on a spending spree, signing Brazilian stars Ricardo Gomes and Valdo Filho as well as proven French players Paul Le Guen , Laurent Fournier , Patrick Colleter and prolific Liberian striker George Weah . The 1992–93 season also marked the beginning of Le Classique , the rivalry between Paris Saint-Germain and Marseille , as both teams battled each other on the field for the 1992–93 French Division 1 crown. PSG finished runners-up after losing both games against Marseille. In the second match between the two clubs, only three days after winning the 1992–93 UEFA Champions League , league leaders Marseille welcomed closest challengers PSG in a match that would determine the title. After Marseille won their fifth consecutive championship, Bernard Tapie and Marseille were found guilty of match-fixing, in what became known as the French football bribery scandal . The French Football Federation stripped Marseille of their title and offered it to second-placed PSG, who refused it because club owners Canal+ thought that claiming the trophy would anger their subscribers back in Marseille . As a result, the 1992–93 title remained unattributed, with Canal+ even refusing to let the capital club participate in the following year's UEFA Champions League after UEFA excluded Marseille from the competition. Instead, Monaco , who finished third in Ligue 1, took the Champions League spot. Considered the club's golden era, the Parisians won nine trophies and reached five consecutive European semi-finals during the 1990s, including their first UEFA Champions League last-four appearance and two at the same stage of the UEFA Cup . PSG's crowning glory came in the 1996 UEFA Cup Winners' Cup final with legend Luis Fernandez now as coach. Bruno Ngotty scored the only goal of the match to defeat Rapid Wien and make Paris the second French club to ever clinch a major European tournament and the youngest club in history to win a European title at 26 years of existence. The following season, PSG finished runners-up in the 1996 UEFA Super Cup and 1997 UEFA Cup Winners' Cup final . On the domestic scene, results were just as satisfying, with Paris celebrating a second league title , three French Cups, two French League Cups and just as many French Super Cup wins. Crisis mode and relegation battles (1998–2011) [ edit ] Club legend Pauleta , who was PSG's all-time top goalscorer , before the QSI takeover PSG then went into decline following years of mismanagement. In the summer 2000, PSG spent heavily on new players signing Nicolas Anelka , Peter Luccin and Stéphane Dalmat as part of the "PSG Banlieue" project of its shareholder Canal+, with the goal of winning Ligue 1 and performing a solid UEFA Champions League campaign but it was a failure. In 2003, the club faced a massive financial loss with a deficit of €65 million, leading Canal+ to fire Luis Fernandez as coach and Laurent Perpère as president and replacing them with Vahid Halilhodžić , who became the new coach and Francis Graille the new president. The club's form dwindled as they slipped further down the table and eventually, a split from owners Canal+ became inevitable. At the start of the 21st century, PSG struggled to rescale the heights despite the magic of Ronaldinho and the goals of Pauleta . Five more trophies arrived in the form of three French Cups (including one against Le Classique arch-rivals Marseille in 2006 ), one French League Cup and one UEFA Intertoto Cup , but the club became better known for lurching from one high-profile crisis to another. The French premium television channel sold the club to Colony Capital in 2006. The situation, however, only got worse and PSG spent the 2006–07 and 2007–08 campaigns staving off relegations. The latter was the most dramatic. Marred by poor results and fan violence, Paris avoided the drop on the final match after a 2–1 win at Sochaux . The hero was Ivorian striker Amara Diané who scored both goals that night. Despite not enjoying the star status of other current or past PSG greats, Diané is still considered a legend by most Parisian fans. QSI ownership, record spending and domestic dominance (2011–2024) [ edit ] Zlatan Ibrahimović greeting PSG fans at the Eiffel Tower on the day he signed for the club in July 2012 After two years of solid progress and stability under the stewardship of manager Antoine Kombouaré and president Robin Leproux , the fortunes of Paris Saint-Germain changed dramatically when Qatar Sports Investments (QSI) purchased the club in 2011. The takeover made PSG not only the richest club in France but one of the wealthiest in the world. Club president Nasser Al-Khelaifi pledged to form a team capable of winning the UEFA Champions League and making the club France's biggest name. Club legend Leonardo was brought back in as sporting director and oversaw a spending spree in summer 2011 that has so far been unprecedented in Ligue 1 history, including the signings of Blaise Matuidi , Salvatore Sirigu , Maxwell , Kevin Gameiro and Javier Pastore . As a result, the Parisians have dominated French football, despite finishing behind Montpellier in 2011–12 , the elusive league crown was finally brought back to Paris in 2012–13 driven by star player Zlatan Ibrahimović , team captain Thiago Silva and manager Carlo Ancelotti . During the season, ahead of the winter transfer deadline it was announced that David Beckham signed a five-month deal with the club. Ibrahimović's 30-goal haul helped the capital side to its first Ligue 1 title in 19 years, and third overall. They also became a regular in the knockout stages of the Champions League, being eliminated from the tournament on away goals by Barcelona in the quarter-finals after drawing both games. Big money signings continued with the arrivals of Edinson Cavani in 2013 for a league record of €64 million, making it the sixth largest transfer in history and David Luiz in 2014 for a £50 million transfer fee, a world-record transfer for a defender. Despite the departure of Ancelotti, PSG kept its winning ways under Laurent Blanc . The club secured a maiden domestic treble (Ligue 1, Coupe de la Ligue and Trophée des Champions ) in the 2013–14 season, before claiming an unprecedented national quadruple (Ligue 1, Coupe de France, Coupe de la Ligue and Trophée des Champions) twice in a row in 2014–15 and 2015–16, winning the latter with a record-breaking 96 points, becoming the only first French men's team to achieve that feat. Fresh from three consecutive UEFA Europa League titles with Sevilla , Unai Emery was hired by PSG for his European pedigree. But with star player Ibrahimović gone, the club endured a disappointing 2016–17 season. Paris were pipped to the Ligue 1 title by Monaco, missing out on top spot for the first time in five years. Meanwhile, in the Champions League, the club suffered several disappointing nights, including "La Remontada" ("The Comeback") against Barcelona, losing 6–1 in the second leg of the round of sixteen , after winning the first leg in France 4–0. Neymar during his presentation in 2017, after becoming the most expensive player ever In response, PSG signed Neymar for a world-record fee of €222 million and French prodigy Kylian Mbappé on an initial loan, which was made permanent in 2018 in a transfer worth €180 million plus add-ons, making him both the second- most expensive player and most expensive teenager. The capital club reclaimed the Ligue 1 title and also won the Trophée des Champions, the Coupe de la Ligue and the Coupe de France, clinching the domestic quadruple for the third time in four seasons. Despite their massive expenditure, in the Champions League, PSG lost to Real Madrid in the round of 16, leading Unai Emery to leave the club at the end of the season. Joining as a prodigious talent, Kylian Mbappé would go on to become the club's all-time record goalscorer. In May 2018, Thomas Tuchel signed a two-year contract with PSG and in the 2019–20 season , PSG won the Ligue 1 for the 9th time in their history, despite the season ending prematurely due to the COVID-19 pandemic , and also reclaimed the Coupe de France defeating Saint-Étienne in the final and won the last-ever Coupe de la Ligue defeating Lyon in a penalty shootout. In the 2019–20 UEFA Champions League , PSG reached the semi-finals for the second time since 1995, before losing to Bayern Munich 1–0 in the final, with former PSG player Kingsley Coman scoring the only goal. During the 2021 summer transfer season, PSG exercised the option to buy Danilo Pereira and signed Achraf Hakimi from Inter Milan for a reported fee of €60 million. In addition, the club registered the free transfers of Georginio Wijnaldum , Sergio Ramos , and Gianluigi Donnarumma . PSG concluded their transfer window with the signing of one of the greatest players of all time and record Ballon d'Or winner Lionel Messi , who unexpectedly left Barcelona following the expiration of his contract, and promising defender Nuno Mendes on an initial loan, which was made permanent in 2022. Later in the season, PSG went on to reclaim the Ligue 1 title for the record 10th time but underperformed in the Champions League. Mbappé's departure and first Champions League win (2024–present) [ edit ] Ousmane Dembélé during a Champions League tie for PSG against Manchester City in January 2025 Unsatisfied with the club direction and lack of European success, club president Nasser Al-Khelaifi promised changes heading into next season. The most significant change at PSG was the move away from a star-centric model to a team-first approach. With the departures of Messi, Neymar, and, most notably, all-time PSG leading goalscorer Mbappé, the club pivoted towards building a more cohesive, system-based team. Rather than investing in individuals with global commercial appeal, the club focused on recruiting players who fit a defined tactical philosophy and embraced a collective mindset. Off the pitch, the club's leadership also adopted a more sustainable and strategic vision. Rather than pursuing short-term global marketing wins, the board prioritized long-term footballing identity. This included investing in player development, hiring a coach with a clear tactical identity, and cultivating a club culture based on work ethic, unity, and discipline. This philosophical reorientation allowed PSG to evolve into a team, rather than a collection of stars. This shift in recruitment and development began with new manager Luis Enrique and transfer market expert Luís Campos as football advisor. Under Enrique, PSG renewed their domestic supremacy in 2024–25 , losing no matches in their first 28 and winning the Ligue 1 title with six matches to spare. He also led them to winning their first Champions League against Inter Milan, beating them 5–0 , helping PSG complete their first ever continental treble . Enrique expressed that Ousmane Dembélé deserves the Ballon d'Or after delivering an "exceptional" performance in the Champions League final. Despite not scoring in the 5–0 win, he assisted two of the goals. He contributed significantly throughout the treble-winning campaign, scoring 33 goals and assisting 15. According to Lewis Jones of Sky Sports News , "What Luis Enrique has built and is building is so special." Jones praises PSG as "perfect as it can be from a football team. Relentless without the ball and so dangerous with it", further stating that "Inter didn't stand a chance. They got run off the pitch. PSG are a beast. The first of many Champions Leagues, no doubt." ^ a b c d e f g "Histoire" . PSG.FR . 19 March 2020. Archived from the original on 1 April 2020 . Retrieved 19 March 2020 . ^ a b c "Paris Saint-Germain FC" . UEFA . 22 August 2012. Archived from the original on 25 April 2018 . Retrieved 2 April 2019 . ^ a b c "La création du PSG de 1970 à 1973" . Paris United . 12 November 2018. Archived from the original on 7 March 2019 . Retrieved 7 March 2019 . ^ a b "6 interesting facts you should know about Paris Saint Germain – DW Blog" . Discover Walks Blog . 20 August 2018. Archived from the original on 8 August 2020 . Retrieved 10 July 2022 . ^ "Political and Organizational Factors of PSG" . Sports and Leisure in France . Archived from the original on 7 July 2022 . Retrieved 10 July 2022 . ^ a b "Association Paris Saint-Germain" . 4 July 2020. Archived from the original on 6 July 2020 . Retrieved 4 July 2020 . ^ "50 ans : Aux origines du club (4/12)" . PSG.FR . 26 June 2020. Archived from the original on 23 August 2020 . Retrieved 8 July 2020 . ^ a b "6 interesting facts you should know about Paris Saint Germain" . Discover Walks Blog . 20 August 2018. Archived from the original on 8 August 2020 . Retrieved 28 March 2019 . ^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r "Histoire du Paris Saint Germain" . PSG70 . Archived from the original on 8 June 2017 . Retrieved 2 April 2019 . ^ a b c d e f "The History of PSG – Why in Today's Money-Driven World, it's Important to Cherish Their Brief but Engrossing History" . Soccer Manager Blog . 6 October 2015. Archived from the original on 2 April 2019 . Retrieved 2 April 2019 . ^ "Bernard Guignedoux nous a quittés" . PSG.FR . 1 January 2020. Archived from the original on 13 January 2021 . Retrieved 1 January 2020 . ^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n "A brief history of PSG" . ESPN.com . 17 August 2012. Archived from the original on 29 June 2021 . Retrieved 16 December 2020 . ^ a b c "The Crest Dissected – Paris Saint Germain" . The Football History Boys . 11 April 2013. Archived from the original on 2 April 2019 . Retrieved 2 April 2019 . ^ a b c "20 juin 1972, il y a 47 ans : le divorce PSG-PFC est consommé…" . Paris.canal-historique . 20 June 2019. Archived from the original on 20 June 2019 . Retrieved 29 April 2020 . ^ "Présidents + entraîneurs" . PSGFC . Archived from the original on 16 January 2021 . Retrieved 7 April 2020 . ^ a b "A brief history: Paris FC" . thefootballcult – Medium . 16 January 2018. Archived from the original on 2 April 2019 . Retrieved 2 April 2019 . ^ a b "Daniel Hechter s'exprime sur les maillots du PSG faits par Nike et se dit prêt à en faire" . PSG.FR . 20 March 2019. Archived from the original on 12 July 2020 . Retrieved 8 July 2020 . ^ a b c d e "Political and Organizational Factors of PSG" . Sports and Leisure in France . Archived from the original on 27 March 2019 . Retrieved 10 March 2019 . ^ a b c "PSG – Valenciennes 1974" . PSG70 . Archived from the original on 27 August 2020 . Retrieved 9 April 2019 . ^ a b c d e "1000 matches pour le PSG au Parc des Princes et dix soirées mythiques" . Le Figaro . 8 September 2016. Archived from the original on 3 April 2019 . Retrieved 3 April 2019 . ^ a b c d "Millième au Parc des Princes : ces dix matches qui ont fait l'histoire du PSG" . Europe1 . 9 September 2016. Archived from the original on 3 April 2019 . Retrieved 3 April 2019 . ^ a b c "1973 – 1978 : Paris se replace sur la scène française" . Paris United . 19 November 2018. Archived from the original on 8 March 2019 . Retrieved 7 March 2019 . ^ "Saison 1974/75" . PSG70 . Archived from the original on 18 November 2011 . Retrieved 8 July 2020 . ^ "Mauricio Pochettino 30e entraîneur du Paris Saint-Germain" . PSG.FR . 2 January 2021. Archived from the original on 13 January 2021 . Retrieved 2 January 2021 . ^ a b c d e f g "Période 1978 – 1991 : l'ère Borelli, là où tout a commencé" . Paris United . 3 December 2018. Archived from the original on 4 April 2019 . Retrieved 3 April 2019 . ^ "saison 1979–1980" . Paris.canal-historique . 18 September 2014. Archived from the original on 18 February 2022 . Retrieved 18 February 2022 . ^ "saison 1980–1981" . Paris.canal-historique . 22 October 2014. Archived from the original on 16 August 2016 . Retrieved 18 February 2022 . ^ a b c d "PSG -Saint-Etienne 1982" . PSG70 . Archived from the original on 5 March 2016 . Retrieved 9 April 2019 . ^ a b "Le Top 10 du PSG en Coupe d'Europe: De la Juve à Valence, de Liverpool au Bayern" . Eurosport . 1 April 2013. Archived from the original on 5 April 2013 . Retrieved 9 April 2019 . ^ a b "PSG – Nantes 1983" . PSG70 . Archived from the original on 2 March 2021 . Retrieved 9 April 2019 . ^ "Saison 1982/83" . PSG70 . Archived from the original on 27 May 2022 . Retrieved 23 February 2022 . ^ a b "Saison 1985/86" . PSG70 . Archived from the original on 27 April 2019 . Retrieved 23 February 2022 . ^ "Saison 1986/87" . PSG70 . Archived from the original on 18 August 2016 . Retrieved 23 February 2022 . ^ "Le PSG en Ligue des champions, entre bides et exploits" . 20 Minutes . 17 September 2012. Archived from the original on 11 August 2021 . Retrieved 9 April 2019 . ^ "4 juin 1988, il y a 32 ans, dramatique Le Havre-PSG" . Paris-canalhistorique . 4 June 2020 . Retrieved 25 February 2022 . ^ "Saison 1988/89" . PSG70 . Archived from the original on 4 March 2016 . Retrieved 25 February 2022 . ^ "France's passion play" . FIFA.com . 12 March 2009. Archived from the original on 29 March 2019 . Retrieved 25 October 2009 . ^ a b c d e f g "L'histoire du PSG 1991–1998 : Le PSG devient un grand d'Europe" . Paris United . 17 December 2018. Archived from the original on 9 April 2019 . Retrieved 7 March 2019 . ^ " 'A Pistol Against a Tank'—The Ultras' View on the PSG vs. Marseille Rivalry" . Bleacher Report . 28 February 2018. Archived from the original on 10 April 2019 . Retrieved 10 April 2019 . ^ a b c "The Greatest French Club Sides Of All Time – Part 3" . French Football Weekly . 19 July 2011. Archived from the original on 16 September 2016 . Retrieved 26 October 2019 . ^ " 'Le Classique', French football's fallen icon" . France 24 . 16 March 2019. Archived from the original on 25 October 2019 . Retrieved 25 October 2019 . ^ "The Greatest French Club Sides Of All Time – Part 5" . French Football Weekly . 24 July 2011. Archived from the original on 5 April 2016 . Retrieved 26 October 2019 . ^ a b "Pourquoi le PSG a refusé le titre de champion retiré à l'OM en 1993" . Oh My Goal . 15 November 2018. Archived from the original on 10 April 2019 . Retrieved 25 October 2019 . ^ "1995/96: European first for Paris Saint-Germain" . UEFA . 1 June 1996. Archived from the original on 3 May 2010 . Retrieved 15 December 2020 . ^ "La Recopa del PSG, el último título europeo de clubes franceses" . FutbolSapiens . 19 August 2020. Archived from the original on 25 January 2021 . Retrieved 13 December 2020 . ^ "En 1996, le PSG était déjà champion d'Europe" . Ville de Paris . 19 August 2020. Archived from the original on 26 January 2021 . Retrieved 13 December 2020 . ^ "1996 Super Cup: Dazzling Juve shine in Paris" . UEFA . 17 October 2008. Archived from the original on 5 December 2020 . Retrieved 6 December 2020 . ^ "1996/97: Ronaldo spot on for Barça" . UEFA . 14 May 1997. Archived from the original on 3 May 2010 . Retrieved 17 January 2021 . ^ "Le Palmarès du PSG" . Histoire du PSG . Archived from the original on 1 May 2020 . Retrieved 6 February 2020 . ^ "OM-PSG: dix "clasicos" qui ont marqué les esprits" . L'Express . 26 November 2011. Archived from the original on 26 October 2019 . Retrieved 26 October 2019 . ^ "Paris Saint-Germain, having conquered France, are still working on Qatar" . The National . 30 December 2015. Archived from the original on 18 April 2017 . Retrieved 17 April 2017 . ^ a b "Paris Saint-Germain hire Unai Emery as manager to replace Laurent Blanc" . ESPN FC . 28 June 2016. Archived from the original on 9 August 2017 . Retrieved 8 August 2017 . ^ a b "Paris Saint-Germain – 2012/13 Season Review" . French Football Weekly . 12 June 2013. Archived from the original on 29 June 2017 . Retrieved 22 September 2017 . ^ Smith, Ben (31 January 2013). "David Beckham set for Paris St Germain move" . BBC Sport . Archived from the original on 10 February 2014 . Retrieved 3 October 2013 . ^ "David Beckham joins Paris St-Germain and will play for free" . BBC. 31 January 2013. Archived from the original on 1 February 2013 . Retrieved 1 February 2013 . ^ a b "Camp Nou collapse, stunned by Man United – Recalling PSG's Champions League woes" . FotMob . 17 December 2020. Archived from the original on 29 June 2021 . Retrieved 17 December 2020 . ^ "Paris Saint-Germain seal Cavani signing" . Goal . Leeds: DAZN Group. 16 July 2013. Archived from the original on 20 July 2013 . Retrieved 16 July 2013 . ^ "Paris Saint-Germain's Qatari owners have spent $1.17 billion on players" . CNBC.com . 18 September 2018. Archived from the original on 18 September 2018 . Retrieved 7 March 2019 . ^ "PSG Have Spent €1.17Billion On Players And Still Haven't Got Past Champions League QF's" . SPORTbible . 7 March 2019. Archived from the original on 26 March 2019 . Retrieved 25 March 2019 . ^ "Paris Saint-Germain: 2013/14 Season Review" . French Football Weekly . 27 May 2014. Archived from the original on 29 June 2017 . Retrieved 22 September 2017 . ^ "Man City 15 games from the quadruple – can they do it?" . BBC Sport . 29 March 2019. Archived from the original on 3 April 2019 . Retrieved 4 April 2019 . ^ "PSG and Unai Emery impress in Trophee des Champions win vs. Lyon" . ESPN FC . 6 August 2016. Archived from the original on 30 December 2018 . Retrieved 8 August 2017 . ^ "PSG 2016–17 season review: Results, roster changes, and 2017 summer transfer targets" . SBNation.com . 22 May 2017. Archived from the original on 9 August 2017 . Retrieved 8 August 2017 . ^ "Barcelona vs PSG referee 'facing Uefa demotion' after controversial performance" . The Independent . 11 March 2017. Archived from the original on 12 November 2020 . Retrieved 18 December 2020 . ^ "PSG trigger Kylian Mbappe's permanent transfer from Monaco" . ESPN. 19 February 2018. Archived from the original on 1 April 2019 . Retrieved 19 February 2018 . ^ "PSG clinch quadruple with Coupe de France win" . Ligue1.com . 8 May 2018. Archived from the original on 10 May 2018 . Retrieved 12 May 2018 . ^ "Billions spent, a treble won – but all that's left is a sense of hollowness for PSG" . iNews . 9 May 2018. Archived from the original on 14 May 2018 . Retrieved 12 May 2018 . ^ Johnson, Jonathan (14 May 2018). "Paris Saint-Germain appoint Thomas Tuchel as coach to replace Unai Emery" . ESPN . Archived from the original on 14 July 2018 . Retrieved 14 July 2018 . ^ "Paris Saint-Germain crowned Ligue 1 champions after French season called off" . Sky Sports . 1 May 2020. Archived from the original on 1 July 2020 . Retrieved 24 July 2020 . ^ "Atalanta 1–2 Paris Saint-Germain" . BBC Sport . 12 August 2020. Archived from the original on 6 October 2020 . Retrieved 12 August 2020 . ^ "Paris St-Germain 0–1 Bayern Munich: German side win Champions League final" . BBC . 23 August 2020. Archived from the original on 23 August 2020 . Retrieved 6 October 2020 . ^ Nakrani, Sachin; Romano, Fabrizio (16 June 2021). "Gianluigi Donnarumma joins PSG as Gianluigi Buffon goes back to Parma" . The Guardian . Archived from the original on 15 September 2024 . Retrieved 16 June 2021 . ^ "Sergio Ramos signs with Paris Saint-Germain" . psg.fr . 8 July 2021. Archived from the original on 11 July 2021 . Retrieved 20 November 2021 . ^ Romano, Fabrizio (7 June 2021). "Georginio Wijnaldum signs contract to join PSG rather than Barcelona" . The Guardian . Archived from the original on 9 June 2021 . Retrieved 8 June 2021 . ^ "Nuno Mendes joins Paris Saint-Germain" . PSG.FR. 31 August 2021. Archived from the original on 31 August 2021 . Retrieved 31 August 2021 . ^ "Lionel Messi signs two-year Paris St-Germain deal after leaving Barcelona" . BBC . Archived from the original on 10 December 2021 . Retrieved 10 August 2021 . ^ Donde, Dixant (26 April 2022). "Paris Saint-Germain reclaim their Ligue 1 title after drawing against Lens" . Football Express . Retrieved 16 May 2022 . [ permanent dead link ] ^ McNulty, Phil (7 May 2025). "PSG 2–1 Arsenal (Agg 3–1)" . BBC Sport . Retrieved 9 May 2025 . ^ "Mercato : Luis Campos veut des soldats, pas des stars" . Le Parisien. 12 July 2024 . Retrieved 11 May 2025 . ^ "Sources: Paris Saint-Germain sack Pochettino" . ESPN.com . 15 June 2022. Archived from the original on 27 July 2022 . Retrieved 27 July 2022 . ^ "Neymar is informed by Luis Enrique that PSG does not count on him, says radio" . Scoreboard. 9 August 2023. Archived from the original on 16 August 2023 . Retrieved 17 September 2023 . ^ "Le PSG champion de France pour la 13e fois de son histoire après sa victoire contre Angers" [PSG French champions for the 13th time in their history after their win against Angers]. L'Équipe (in French). 5 April 2025 . Retrieved 6 April 2025 . ^ McNulty, Phil (7 May 2025). "PSG 2–1 Arsenal (Agg 3–1)" . BBC Sport . Retrieved 9 May 2025 . ^ a b "TNT Sports is not available in your region" . www.tntsports.co.uk . Retrieved 1 June 2025 . ^ a b "PSG 5-0 Inter Milan: Desire Doue stars as Luis Enrique's side win Champions League for first time" . Sky Sports . Retrieved 1 June 2025 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Creation and split (1970–1973)

Creation and split (1970–1973) [ edit ] Guy Crescent (pictured), Pierre-Étienne Guyot and Henri Patrelle founded PSG in 1970. In the summer of 1970, an ambitious group of businessmen decided to create a major team in the French capital. Guy Crescent and Pierre-Étienne Guyot chose to merge their virtual side, Paris FC , created in 1969, with Stade Saint-Germain of Henri Patrelle after the team from Saint-Germain-en-Laye , 15 km west of Paris and founded in 1904, won promotion to Division 2 . However, the three men were stuck with the financial feasibility of the project until they met Real Madrid president Santiago Bernabéu . He told them that starting a crowdfunding campaign was the best solution to establish a new team. 20,000 people backed the project and Paris Saint-Germain were formed on 17 June 1970. Guyot was elected the club's first president a few days later. For the first time in French football history, the fans had financially contributed in the making of a club. The merger was made official following the creation of the club's association on 12 August 1970. PSG retains this day as their foundation date. Paris FC contributed with the financial backing, while Stade Saint-Germain provided the sporting infrastructure, from the Division 2 status to the Camp des Loges training center, as well as the manager Pierre Phelipon and most of the players, including Bernard Guignedoux , Michel Prost and Camille Choquier . PSG further strengthened their squad with the signing of Jean Djorkaeff , captain of the French national team . PSG's first official game was a 1–1 league draw away to Poitiers on 23 August 1970. Guignedoux scored the club's first ever goal from a free-kick. The club went on to clinch promotion to Division 1 and claim the Division 2 title in its inaugural season . PSG's first top-flight season ended with a safe 16th place , meaning they would stay in Division 1 next year, but behind the scenes the club was in a delicate financial situation. Back in September 1971, the Paris City Council offered 850k francs to pay the club's debt and save its place in the elite, demanding PSG in return to adopt the more Parisian name "Paris Football Club." Crescent, who had replaced Guyot as club president before the start of the season, was in favor of the name change, but Patrelle was against it. The disagreement led to Crescent's resignation in December 1971, handing the presidency to Patrelle. The latter tried to persuade the council to reconsider their position, but they remained inflexible and the club split on 1 June 1972, a few days after the last match of the campaign. Backed by the council, Crescent re-formed Paris FC and remained in Division 1, while the PSG of Patrelle were administratively relegated to Division 3 , thus losing professional status. ^ a b c d "Histoire" . PSG.FR . 19 March 2020. Archived from the original on 1 April 2020 . Retrieved 19 March 2020 . ^ a b c "Paris Saint-Germain FC" . UEFA . 22 August 2012. Archived from the original on 25 April 2018 . Retrieved 2 April 2019 . ^ a b c "La création du PSG de 1970 à 1973" . Paris United . 12 November 2018. Archived from the original on 7 March 2019 . Retrieved 7 March 2019 . ^ a b "6 interesting facts you should know about Paris Saint Germain – DW Blog" . Discover Walks Blog . 20 August 2018. Archived from the original on 8 August 2020 . Retrieved 10 July 2022 . ^ "Political and Organizational Factors of PSG" . Sports and Leisure in France . Archived from the original on 7 July 2022 . Retrieved 10 July 2022 . ^ a b "Association Paris Saint-Germain" . 4 July 2020. Archived from the original on 6 July 2020 . Retrieved 4 July 2020 . ^ "50 ans : Aux origines du club (4/12)" . PSG.FR . 26 June 2020. Archived from the original on 23 August 2020 . Retrieved 8 July 2020 . ^ "6 interesting facts you should know about Paris Saint Germain" . Discover Walks Blog . 20 August 2018. Archived from the original on 8 August 2020 . Retrieved 28 March 2019 . ^ a b c d e "Histoire du Paris Saint Germain" . PSG70 . Archived from the original on 8 June 2017 . Retrieved 2 April 2019 . ^ a b "The History of PSG – Why in Today's Money-Driven World, it's Important to Cherish Their Brief but Engrossing History" . Soccer Manager Blog . 6 October 2015. Archived from the original on 2 April 2019 . Retrieved 2 April 2019 . ^ "Bernard Guignedoux nous a quittés" . PSG.FR . 1 January 2020. Archived from the original on 13 January 2021 . Retrieved 1 January 2020 . ^ "A brief history of PSG" . ESPN.com . 17 August 2012. Archived from the original on 29 June 2021 . Retrieved 16 December 2020 . ^ "The Crest Dissected – Paris Saint Germain" . The Football History Boys . 11 April 2013. Archived from the original on 2 April 2019 . Retrieved 2 April 2019 . ^ a b c "20 juin 1972, il y a 47 ans : le divorce PSG-PFC est consommé…" . Paris.canal-historique . 20 June 2019. Archived from the original on 20 June 2019 . Retrieved 29 April 2020 . ^ "Présidents + entraîneurs" . PSGFC . Archived from the original on 16 January 2021 . Retrieved 7 April 2020 . ^ "A brief history: Paris FC" . thefootballcult – Medium . 16 January 2018. Archived from the original on 2 April 2019 . Retrieved 2 April 2019 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Top-flight return and Parc des Princes move (1973–1978)

Top-flight return and Parc des Princes move (1973–1978) [ edit ] Just Fontaine helped Paris Saint-Germain return to Division 1 in 1974. Paris Saint-Germain really took flight with the arrival of fashion designer Daniel Hechter as chairman of the management committee in June 1973. Besides offering his financial support to the club, he also designed the team's classic home outfit. Hechter then shocked the national game ahead of 1973–74 by appointing French legend Just Fontaine as sporting director. Robert Vicot 's men finished second in Group B , four points behind Red Star , qualifying for the promotion play–offs against Valenciennes . PSG lost 1–2 away to Valenciennes, but PSG recorded an incredible 4–2 comeback at the Parc des Princes , thus achieving promotion to Division 1 and regaining its professional status abandoned two years earlier. Overwhelmed by emotion, Fontaine collapsed on the lawn and was then carried by the players in celebration. Since then, PSG have always played in the first tier of French football. PSG played their first game at the Parc des Princes during this campaign. It was against fellow Parisian side Red Star on 10 November 1973. PSG won 3–1 and Othniel Dossevi scored the club's first goal at the stadium. The Parisians also began their tradition of brilliant Coupe de France runs, reaching the quarterfinals after beating Metz at the Parc in front of 25,000 spectators (2–1; 4–1 on aggregate). In an ironic turn of events, Paris FC were relegated to Division 2 at the same time as Paris Saint-Germain moved up to the top flight in 1974, leaving their home stadium, the Parc des Princes , in the hands of their estranged Parisian brothers. Since then, the Parc has been the home of PSG. With promotion to Division 1 also came a change of command. Daniel Hechter , then chairman of the management committee, took over as club president in June 1974 following the resignation of Patrelle. He named Francis Borelli as vice-president. Under Hechter's tenure, the Parisians failed to win any silverware in the 1970s but began their tradition of brilliant Coupe de France runs, established themselves in Division 1, and attracted several prestigious players, including Jean-Pierre Dogliani , Mustapha Dahleb and Carlos Bianchi . After Hechter was banned for life from football by the French Football Federation in January 1978, for running a ticketing scheme at the Parc des Princes, Francis Borelli, who had been vice-president until then, became the new boss of the Île-de-France club. ^ Cite error: The named reference history was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ a b "Daniel Hechter s'exprime sur les maillots du PSG faits par Nike et se dit prêt à en faire" . PSG.FR . 20 March 2019. Archived from the original on 12 July 2020 . Retrieved 8 July 2020 . ^ Cite error: The named reference dissected was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ a b c "Political and Organizational Factors of PSG" . Sports and Leisure in France . Archived from the original on 27 March 2019 . Retrieved 10 March 2019 . ^ a b c d e Cite error: The named reference psg70 was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ a b Cite error: The named reference soccer was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ a b c "PSG – Valenciennes 1974" . PSG70 . Archived from the original on 27 August 2020 . Retrieved 9 April 2019 . ^ "1000 matches pour le PSG au Parc des Princes et dix soirées mythiques" . Le Figaro . 8 September 2016. Archived from the original on 3 April 2019 . Retrieved 3 April 2019 . ^ "Millième au Parc des Princes : ces dix matches qui ont fait l'histoire du PSG" . Europe1 . 9 September 2016. Archived from the original on 3 April 2019 . Retrieved 3 April 2019 . ^ a b c "1973 – 1978 : Paris se replace sur la scène française" . Paris United . 19 November 2018. Archived from the original on 8 March 2019 . Retrieved 7 March 2019 . ^ Cite error: The named reference pfc was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ "Saison 1974/75" . PSG70 . Archived from the original on 18 November 2011 . Retrieved 8 July 2020 .

______________________________________________________________________

### First major honours and decline (1978–1991)

First major honours and decline (1978–1991) [ edit ] Dominique Rocheteau scored one of the club's most iconic goals ever. Following the arrival of manager Georges Peyroche in November 1979, the club established itself as a top-half team and then welcomed its first major honour when the Parisians reached their first French Cup final in 1982. Up against the great Saint-Étienne of Michel Platini at the Parc des Princes , Nambatingue Toko opened the scoring for PSG following a good cross from Ivica Šurjak . Saint-Étienne reacted and Platini equalized to send the game to extra-time. Platini then doubled his personal account, giving the Greens the lead. The Parc des Princes faithful no longer believed in their team when Dominique Rocheteau , after yet another assist from Šurjak, scored an unexpected equalizer in the last seconds of the match. PSG fans invaded the field in joy, while club president Francis Borelli kneeled and kissed the lawn of the Parc. Following an interruption of 30 minutes, the penalty shootout sealed PSG's coronation. Dominique Baratelli stopped Saint-Étienne's last attempt and Jean-Marc Pilorget scored the winning penalty for the capital side. This success opened the doors to Europe, where PSG made an impressive continental debut in reaching the quarterfinals of the 1982–83 European Cup Winners' Cup . On the domestic scene, results were just as satisfying. PSG captured their first podium finish, coming in third place , and repeated the feat in the 1983 Coupe de France Final , this time against Nantes . Recently crowned French champions, the Canaries were headed for the league-cup double, leading at the break after overturning Pascal Zaremba 's early strike. But PSG managed their own comeback in the second half as Sušić equalized and then assisted Toko for the winning goal (3–2). The campaign ended on a sad note, though, as Georges Peyroche left the club. Three years later, under the guidance of manager Gérard Houllier , PSG claimed their maiden league crown in 1985–86 . They dominated the championship from start to finish thanks in big part to the likes of Joël Bats , Dominique Bathenay , Luis Fernandez , Dominique Rocheteau and Safet Sušić , all of whom made up the backbone of the team. The victory away to Toulouse on Matchday 3 meant PSG sat at the top of the table for the first time ever, a spot they never relinquished, going a memorable 26 matches without defeat towards the title. The follow-up to the league title was not as glorious though. Defending champions PSG finished the league in seventh place , suffered an early exit from the French Cup and were knocked out by Czech minnows Vítkovice in the first round of a disappointing European Cup debut . The following year, PSG avoided relegation on the final match of the 1987–88 season thanks to a dramatic 0–1 win away to Le Havre . Highly indebted, the club briefly bounced back, fighting for the 1988–89 league crown with Marseille , before going into decline. ^ "Mauricio Pochettino 30e entraîneur du Paris Saint-Germain" . PSG.FR . 2 January 2021. Archived from the original on 13 January 2021 . Retrieved 2 January 2021 . ^ Cite error: The named reference dissected was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ a b c d e f g "Période 1978 – 1991 : l'ère Borelli, là où tout a commencé" . Paris United . 3 December 2018. Archived from the original on 4 April 2019 . Retrieved 3 April 2019 . ^ "saison 1979–1980" . Paris.canal-historique . 18 September 2014. Archived from the original on 18 February 2022 . Retrieved 18 February 2022 . ^ "saison 1980–1981" . Paris.canal-historique . 22 October 2014. Archived from the original on 16 August 2016 . Retrieved 18 February 2022 . ^ a b c d Cite error: The named reference fontaine was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ a b c Cite error: The named reference dossevi was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ a b c d "PSG -Saint-Etienne 1982" . PSG70 . Archived from the original on 5 March 2016 . Retrieved 9 April 2019 . ^ Cite error: The named reference psgfc was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ a b "Le Top 10 du PSG en Coupe d'Europe: De la Juve à Valence, de Liverpool au Bayern" . Eurosport . 1 April 2013. Archived from the original on 5 April 2013 . Retrieved 9 April 2019 . ^ a b Cite error: The named reference soccer was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ a b "PSG – Nantes 1983" . PSG70 . Archived from the original on 2 March 2021 . Retrieved 9 April 2019 . ^ "Saison 1982/83" . PSG70 . Archived from the original on 27 May 2022 . Retrieved 23 February 2022 . ^ a b "Saison 1985/86" . PSG70 . Archived from the original on 27 April 2019 . Retrieved 23 February 2022 . ^ a b Cite error: The named reference psg70 was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ "Saison 1986/87" . PSG70 . Archived from the original on 18 August 2016 . Retrieved 23 February 2022 . ^ "Le PSG en Ligue des champions, entre bides et exploits" . 20 Minutes . 17 September 2012. Archived from the original on 11 August 2021 . Retrieved 9 April 2019 . ^ "4 juin 1988, il y a 32 ans, dramatique Le Havre-PSG" . Paris-canalhistorique . 4 June 2020 . Retrieved 25 February 2022 . ^ "Saison 1988/89" . PSG70 . Archived from the original on 4 March 2016 . Retrieved 25 February 2022 . ^ "France's passion play" . FIFA.com . 12 March 2009. Archived from the original on 29 March 2019 . Retrieved 25 October 2009 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Canal+ takeover and golden era (1991–1998)

Canal+ takeover and golden era (1991–1998) [ edit ] George Weah during his playing days at Paris Saint-Germain The takeover by television giants Canal+ in 1991 revitalised Paris Saint-Germain as they became one of the richest clubs in France. Canal+ wiped out PSG's huge debt and appointed Michel Denisot , journalist on the channel, as club president in place of Francis Borelli. Now enjoying serious investment, the Red and Blues were able to set their sights steadily higher: they had to qualify for European competitions in their first season and become French champions within three years. In consequence, Canal+ increased the club's budget from 90 to 120 million francs in order to build a strong squad for the 1991–92 season. The revolution began with the appointment of renowned coach Artur Jorge , famous for leading Porto to the 1986–87 European Cup trophy. The club then embarked on a spending spree, signing Brazilian stars Ricardo Gomes and Valdo Filho as well as proven French players Paul Le Guen , Laurent Fournier , Patrick Colleter and prolific Liberian striker George Weah . The 1992–93 season also marked the beginning of Le Classique , the rivalry between Paris Saint-Germain and Marseille , as both teams battled each other on the field for the 1992–93 French Division 1 crown. PSG finished runners-up after losing both games against Marseille. In the second match between the two clubs, only three days after winning the 1992–93 UEFA Champions League , league leaders Marseille welcomed closest challengers PSG in a match that would determine the title. After Marseille won their fifth consecutive championship, Bernard Tapie and Marseille were found guilty of match-fixing, in what became known as the French football bribery scandal . The French Football Federation stripped Marseille of their title and offered it to second-placed PSG, who refused it because club owners Canal+ thought that claiming the trophy would anger their subscribers back in Marseille . As a result, the 1992–93 title remained unattributed, with Canal+ even refusing to let the capital club participate in the following year's UEFA Champions League after UEFA excluded Marseille from the competition. Instead, Monaco , who finished third in Ligue 1, took the Champions League spot. Considered the club's golden era, the Parisians won nine trophies and reached five consecutive European semi-finals during the 1990s, including their first UEFA Champions League last-four appearance and two at the same stage of the UEFA Cup . PSG's crowning glory came in the 1996 UEFA Cup Winners' Cup final with legend Luis Fernandez now as coach. Bruno Ngotty scored the only goal of the match to defeat Rapid Wien and make Paris the second French club to ever clinch a major European tournament and the youngest club in history to win a European title at 26 years of existence. The following season, PSG finished runners-up in the 1996 UEFA Super Cup and 1997 UEFA Cup Winners' Cup final . On the domestic scene, results were just as satisfying, with Paris celebrating a second league title , three French Cups, two French League Cups and just as many French Super Cup wins. ^ Cite error: The named reference history was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ a b Cite error: The named reference finances was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ a b c d e f g "L'histoire du PSG 1991–1998 : Le PSG devient un grand d'Europe" . Paris United . 17 December 2018. Archived from the original on 9 April 2019 . Retrieved 7 March 2019 . ^ a b c d Cite error: The named reference psg70 was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ " 'A Pistol Against a Tank'—The Ultras' View on the PSG vs. Marseille Rivalry" . Bleacher Report . 28 February 2018. Archived from the original on 10 April 2019 . Retrieved 10 April 2019 . ^ a b c "The Greatest French Club Sides Of All Time – Part 3" . French Football Weekly . 19 July 2011. Archived from the original on 16 September 2016 . Retrieved 26 October 2019 . ^ " 'Le Classique', French football's fallen icon" . France 24 . 16 March 2019. Archived from the original on 25 October 2019 . Retrieved 25 October 2019 . ^ "The Greatest French Club Sides Of All Time – Part 5" . French Football Weekly . 24 July 2011. Archived from the original on 5 April 2016 . Retrieved 26 October 2019 . ^ a b "Pourquoi le PSG a refusé le titre de champion retiré à l'OM en 1993" . Oh My Goal . 15 November 2018. Archived from the original on 10 April 2019 . Retrieved 25 October 2019 . ^ a b Cite error: The named reference psgfc was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ "1995/96: European first for Paris Saint-Germain" . UEFA . 1 June 1996. Archived from the original on 3 May 2010 . Retrieved 15 December 2020 . ^ "La Recopa del PSG, el último título europeo de clubes franceses" . FutbolSapiens . 19 August 2020. Archived from the original on 25 January 2021 . Retrieved 13 December 2020 . ^ "En 1996, le PSG était déjà champion d'Europe" . Ville de Paris . 19 August 2020. Archived from the original on 26 January 2021 . Retrieved 13 December 2020 . ^ "1996 Super Cup: Dazzling Juve shine in Paris" . UEFA . 17 October 2008. Archived from the original on 5 December 2020 . Retrieved 6 December 2020 . ^ "1996/97: Ronaldo spot on for Barça" . UEFA . 14 May 1997. Archived from the original on 3 May 2010 . Retrieved 17 January 2021 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Crisis mode and relegation battles (1998–2011)

Crisis mode and relegation battles (1998–2011) [ edit ] Club legend Pauleta , who was PSG's all-time top goalscorer , before the QSI takeover PSG then went into decline following years of mismanagement. In the summer 2000, PSG spent heavily on new players signing Nicolas Anelka , Peter Luccin and Stéphane Dalmat as part of the "PSG Banlieue" project of its shareholder Canal+, with the goal of winning Ligue 1 and performing a solid UEFA Champions League campaign but it was a failure. In 2003, the club faced a massive financial loss with a deficit of €65 million, leading Canal+ to fire Luis Fernandez as coach and Laurent Perpère as president and replacing them with Vahid Halilhodžić , who became the new coach and Francis Graille the new president. The club's form dwindled as they slipped further down the table and eventually, a split from owners Canal+ became inevitable. At the start of the 21st century, PSG struggled to rescale the heights despite the magic of Ronaldinho and the goals of Pauleta . Five more trophies arrived in the form of three French Cups (including one against Le Classique arch-rivals Marseille in 2006 ), one French League Cup and one UEFA Intertoto Cup , but the club became better known for lurching from one high-profile crisis to another. The French premium television channel sold the club to Colony Capital in 2006. The situation, however, only got worse and PSG spent the 2006–07 and 2007–08 campaigns staving off relegations. The latter was the most dramatic. Marred by poor results and fan violence, Paris avoided the drop on the final match after a 2–1 win at Sochaux . The hero was Ivorian striker Amara Diané who scored both goals that night. Despite not enjoying the star status of other current or past PSG greats, Diané is still considered a legend by most Parisian fans. ^ a b c d e f Cite error: The named reference psgfc was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ a b Cite error: The named reference psg70 was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ Cite error: The named reference history was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ "Le Palmarès du PSG" . Histoire du PSG . Archived from the original on 1 May 2020 . Retrieved 6 February 2020 . ^ "OM-PSG: dix "clasicos" qui ont marqué les esprits" . L'Express . 26 November 2011. Archived from the original on 26 October 2019 . Retrieved 26 October 2019 . ^ Cite error: The named reference santiago was invoked but never defined (see the help page ).

______________________________________________________________________

### QSI ownership, record spending and domestic dominance (2011–2024)

QSI ownership, record spending and domestic dominance (2011–2024) [ edit ] Zlatan Ibrahimović greeting PSG fans at the Eiffel Tower on the day he signed for the club in July 2012 After two years of solid progress and stability under the stewardship of manager Antoine Kombouaré and president Robin Leproux , the fortunes of Paris Saint-Germain changed dramatically when Qatar Sports Investments (QSI) purchased the club in 2011. The takeover made PSG not only the richest club in France but one of the wealthiest in the world. Club president Nasser Al-Khelaifi pledged to form a team capable of winning the UEFA Champions League and making the club France's biggest name. Club legend Leonardo was brought back in as sporting director and oversaw a spending spree in summer 2011 that has so far been unprecedented in Ligue 1 history, including the signings of Blaise Matuidi , Salvatore Sirigu , Maxwell , Kevin Gameiro and Javier Pastore . As a result, the Parisians have dominated French football, despite finishing behind Montpellier in 2011–12 , the elusive league crown was finally brought back to Paris in 2012–13 driven by star player Zlatan Ibrahimović , team captain Thiago Silva and manager Carlo Ancelotti . During the season, ahead of the winter transfer deadline it was announced that David Beckham signed a five-month deal with the club. Ibrahimović's 30-goal haul helped the capital side to its first Ligue 1 title in 19 years, and third overall. They also became a regular in the knockout stages of the Champions League, being eliminated from the tournament on away goals by Barcelona in the quarter-finals after drawing both games. Big money signings continued with the arrivals of Edinson Cavani in 2013 for a league record of €64 million, making it the sixth largest transfer in history and David Luiz in 2014 for a £50 million transfer fee, a world-record transfer for a defender. Despite the departure of Ancelotti, PSG kept its winning ways under Laurent Blanc . The club secured a maiden domestic treble (Ligue 1, Coupe de la Ligue and Trophée des Champions ) in the 2013–14 season, before claiming an unprecedented national quadruple (Ligue 1, Coupe de France, Coupe de la Ligue and Trophée des Champions) twice in a row in 2014–15 and 2015–16, winning the latter with a record-breaking 96 points, becoming the only first French men's team to achieve that feat. Fresh from three consecutive UEFA Europa League titles with Sevilla , Unai Emery was hired by PSG for his European pedigree. But with star player Ibrahimović gone, the club endured a disappointing 2016–17 season. Paris were pipped to the Ligue 1 title by Monaco, missing out on top spot for the first time in five years. Meanwhile, in the Champions League, the club suffered several disappointing nights, including "La Remontada" ("The Comeback") against Barcelona, losing 6–1 in the second leg of the round of sixteen , after winning the first leg in France 4–0. Neymar during his presentation in 2017, after becoming the most expensive player ever In response, PSG signed Neymar for a world-record fee of €222 million and French prodigy Kylian Mbappé on an initial loan, which was made permanent in 2018 in a transfer worth €180 million plus add-ons, making him both the second- most expensive player and most expensive teenager. The capital club reclaimed the Ligue 1 title and also won the Trophée des Champions, the Coupe de la Ligue and the Coupe de France, clinching the domestic quadruple for the third time in four seasons. Despite their massive expenditure, in the Champions League, PSG lost to Real Madrid in the round of 16, leading Unai Emery to leave the club at the end of the season. Joining as a prodigious talent, Kylian Mbappé would go on to become the club's all-time record goalscorer. In May 2018, Thomas Tuchel signed a two-year contract with PSG and in the 2019–20 season , PSG won the Ligue 1 for the 9th time in their history, despite the season ending prematurely due to the COVID-19 pandemic , and also reclaimed the Coupe de France defeating Saint-Étienne in the final and won the last-ever Coupe de la Ligue defeating Lyon in a penalty shootout. In the 2019–20 UEFA Champions League , PSG reached the semi-finals for the second time since 1995, before losing to Bayern Munich 1–0 in the final, with former PSG player Kingsley Coman scoring the only goal. During the 2021 summer transfer season, PSG exercised the option to buy Danilo Pereira and signed Achraf Hakimi from Inter Milan for a reported fee of €60 million. In addition, the club registered the free transfers of Georginio Wijnaldum , Sergio Ramos , and Gianluigi Donnarumma . PSG concluded their transfer window with the signing of one of the greatest players of all time and record Ballon d'Or winner Lionel Messi , who unexpectedly left Barcelona following the expiration of his contract, and promising defender Nuno Mendes on an initial loan, which was made permanent in 2022. Later in the season, PSG went on to reclaim the Ligue 1 title for the record 10th time but underperformed in the Champions League. ^ a b c d Cite error: The named reference psgfc was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ "Paris Saint-Germain, having conquered France, are still working on Qatar" . The National . 30 December 2015. Archived from the original on 18 April 2017 . Retrieved 17 April 2017 . ^ a b "Paris Saint-Germain hire Unai Emery as manager to replace Laurent Blanc" . ESPN FC . 28 June 2016. Archived from the original on 9 August 2017 . Retrieved 8 August 2017 . ^ a b "Paris Saint-Germain – 2012/13 Season Review" . French Football Weekly . 12 June 2013. Archived from the original on 29 June 2017 . Retrieved 22 September 2017 . ^ Smith, Ben (31 January 2013). "David Beckham set for Paris St Germain move" . BBC Sport . Archived from the original on 10 February 2014 . Retrieved 3 October 2013 . ^ "David Beckham joins Paris St-Germain and will play for free" . BBC. 31 January 2013. Archived from the original on 1 February 2013 . Retrieved 1 February 2013 . ^ a b "Camp Nou collapse, stunned by Man United – Recalling PSG's Champions League woes" . FotMob . 17 December 2020. Archived from the original on 29 June 2021 . Retrieved 17 December 2020 . ^ "Paris Saint-Germain seal Cavani signing" . Goal . Leeds: DAZN Group. 16 July 2013. Archived from the original on 20 July 2013 . Retrieved 16 July 2013 . ^ "Paris Saint-Germain's Qatari owners have spent $1.17 billion on players" . CNBC.com . 18 September 2018. Archived from the original on 18 September 2018 . Retrieved 7 March 2019 . ^ "PSG Have Spent €1.17Billion On Players And Still Haven't Got Past Champions League QF's" . SPORTbible . 7 March 2019. Archived from the original on 26 March 2019 . Retrieved 25 March 2019 . ^ "Paris Saint-Germain: 2013/14 Season Review" . French Football Weekly . 27 May 2014. Archived from the original on 29 June 2017 . Retrieved 22 September 2017 . ^ "Man City 15 games from the quadruple – can they do it?" . BBC Sport . 29 March 2019. Archived from the original on 3 April 2019 . Retrieved 4 April 2019 . ^ "PSG and Unai Emery impress in Trophee des Champions win vs. Lyon" . ESPN FC . 6 August 2016. Archived from the original on 30 December 2018 . Retrieved 8 August 2017 . ^ "PSG 2016–17 season review: Results, roster changes, and 2017 summer transfer targets" . SBNation.com . 22 May 2017. Archived from the original on 9 August 2017 . Retrieved 8 August 2017 . ^ "Barcelona vs PSG referee 'facing Uefa demotion' after controversial performance" . The Independent . 11 March 2017. Archived from the original on 12 November 2020 . Retrieved 18 December 2020 . ^ "PSG trigger Kylian Mbappe's permanent transfer from Monaco" . ESPN. 19 February 2018. Archived from the original on 1 April 2019 . Retrieved 19 February 2018 . ^ "PSG clinch quadruple with Coupe de France win" . Ligue1.com . 8 May 2018. Archived from the original on 10 May 2018 . Retrieved 12 May 2018 . ^ "Billions spent, a treble won – but all that's left is a sense of hollowness for PSG" . iNews . 9 May 2018. Archived from the original on 14 May 2018 . Retrieved 12 May 2018 . ^ Johnson, Jonathan (14 May 2018). "Paris Saint-Germain appoint Thomas Tuchel as coach to replace Unai Emery" . ESPN . Archived from the original on 14 July 2018 . Retrieved 14 July 2018 . ^ "Paris Saint-Germain crowned Ligue 1 champions after French season called off" . Sky Sports . 1 May 2020. Archived from the original on 1 July 2020 . Retrieved 24 July 2020 . ^ "Atalanta 1–2 Paris Saint-Germain" . BBC Sport . 12 August 2020. Archived from the original on 6 October 2020 . Retrieved 12 August 2020 . ^ "Paris St-Germain 0–1 Bayern Munich: German side win Champions League final" . BBC . 23 August 2020. Archived from the original on 23 August 2020 . Retrieved 6 October 2020 . ^ Nakrani, Sachin; Romano, Fabrizio (16 June 2021). "Gianluigi Donnarumma joins PSG as Gianluigi Buffon goes back to Parma" . The Guardian . Archived from the original on 15 September 2024 . Retrieved 16 June 2021 . ^ "Sergio Ramos signs with Paris Saint-Germain" . psg.fr . 8 July 2021. Archived from the original on 11 July 2021 . Retrieved 20 November 2021 . ^ Romano, Fabrizio (7 June 2021). "Georginio Wijnaldum signs contract to join PSG rather than Barcelona" . The Guardian . Archived from the original on 9 June 2021 . Retrieved 8 June 2021 . ^ "Nuno Mendes joins Paris Saint-Germain" . PSG.FR. 31 August 2021. Archived from the original on 31 August 2021 . Retrieved 31 August 2021 . ^ "Lionel Messi signs two-year Paris St-Germain deal after leaving Barcelona" . BBC . Archived from the original on 10 December 2021 . Retrieved 10 August 2021 . ^ Donde, Dixant (26 April 2022). "Paris Saint-Germain reclaim their Ligue 1 title after drawing against Lens" . Football Express . Retrieved 16 May 2022 . [ permanent dead link ]

______________________________________________________________________

### Mbappé's departure and first Champions League win (2024–present)

Mbappé's departure and first Champions League win (2024–present) [ edit ] Ousmane Dembélé during a Champions League tie for PSG against Manchester City in January 2025 Unsatisfied with the club direction and lack of European success, club president Nasser Al-Khelaifi promised changes heading into next season. The most significant change at PSG was the move away from a star-centric model to a team-first approach. With the departures of Messi, Neymar, and, most notably, all-time PSG leading goalscorer Mbappé, the club pivoted towards building a more cohesive, system-based team. Rather than investing in individuals with global commercial appeal, the club focused on recruiting players who fit a defined tactical philosophy and embraced a collective mindset. Off the pitch, the club's leadership also adopted a more sustainable and strategic vision. Rather than pursuing short-term global marketing wins, the board prioritized long-term footballing identity. This included investing in player development, hiring a coach with a clear tactical identity, and cultivating a club culture based on work ethic, unity, and discipline. This philosophical reorientation allowed PSG to evolve into a team, rather than a collection of stars. This shift in recruitment and development began with new manager Luis Enrique and transfer market expert Luís Campos as football advisor. Under Enrique, PSG renewed their domestic supremacy in 2024–25 , losing no matches in their first 28 and winning the Ligue 1 title with six matches to spare. He also led them to winning their first Champions League against Inter Milan, beating them 5–0 , helping PSG complete their first ever continental treble . Enrique expressed that Ousmane Dembélé deserves the Ballon d'Or after delivering an "exceptional" performance in the Champions League final. Despite not scoring in the 5–0 win, he assisted two of the goals. He contributed significantly throughout the treble-winning campaign, scoring 33 goals and assisting 15. According to Lewis Jones of Sky Sports News , "What Luis Enrique has built and is building is so special." Jones praises PSG as "perfect as it can be from a football team. Relentless without the ball and so dangerous with it", further stating that "Inter didn't stand a chance. They got run off the pitch. PSG are a beast. The first of many Champions Leagues, no doubt." ^ McNulty, Phil (7 May 2025). "PSG 2–1 Arsenal (Agg 3–1)" . BBC Sport . Retrieved 9 May 2025 . ^ "Mercato : Luis Campos veut des soldats, pas des stars" . Le Parisien. 12 July 2024 . Retrieved 11 May 2025 . ^ "Sources: Paris Saint-Germain sack Pochettino" . ESPN.com . 15 June 2022. Archived from the original on 27 July 2022 . Retrieved 27 July 2022 . ^ "Neymar is informed by Luis Enrique that PSG does not count on him, says radio" . Scoreboard. 9 August 2023. Archived from the original on 16 August 2023 . Retrieved 17 September 2023 . ^ "Le PSG champion de France pour la 13e fois de son histoire après sa victoire contre Angers" [PSG French champions for the 13th time in their history after their win against Angers]. L'Équipe (in French). 5 April 2025 . Retrieved 6 April 2025 . ^ McNulty, Phil (7 May 2025). "PSG 2–1 Arsenal (Agg 3–1)" . BBC Sport . Retrieved 9 May 2025 . ^ a b "TNT Sports is not available in your region" . www.tntsports.co.uk . Retrieved 1 June 2025 . ^ a b "PSG 5-0 Inter Milan: Desire Doue stars as Luis Enrique's side win Champions League for first time" . Sky Sports . Retrieved 1 June 2025 .

______________________________________________________________________

## Identity

Identity [ edit ] Germain the Lynx, the club's official mascot Colours and mascot [ edit ] Since their foundation, Paris Saint-Germain have represented both the city of Paris and the nearby royal town of Saint-Germain-en-Laye . As a result, red, blue and white are the club's traditional colours. The red and blue are Parisian colours, a nod to revolutionary figures Lafayette and Jean Sylvain Bailly , and the white is a symbol of French royalty and Saint-Germain-en-Laye. On the club's crest, the Eiffel Tower in red and the blue background represent Paris, while the fleur de lys in white is a hint to the coat of arms of Saint-Germain-en-Laye. The fleur de lys is a royal symbol as well and recalls that French King Louis XIV was born in the town. Throughout its history, PSG have brandished several crests, but all of them have featured the club's three historical colours. Likewise, PSG's most distinctive shirts have been predominantly red, blue or white, with the remaining two colours included as well. The club's official mascot, Germain the Lynx , also sports PSG's traditional colours. It was unveiled during the 2010 Tournoi de Paris in commemoration of the club's 40th anniversary, and can be seen entertaining kids in the stands of the Parc des Princes or near the pitch with the players during the warm-up. Anthems and mottos [ edit ] Further information: Paris Saint-Germain FC supporters § Anthems and mottos "Allez Paris!," recorded by Belgian actress and singer Annie Cordy in 1971, was the club's first official anthem. A PSG fan from the start, she was part of an association of hundreds of celebrities who contributed to the foundation of the club in 1970. The club's second anthem, "Allez Paris-Saint-Germain!" by Les Parisiens, was recorded in 1977, replacing Cordy's version. The brainchild of historical PSG leader and music producer Charles Talar, he produced and released it under his homonym record label. The song's chorus became a popular chant among PSG supporters during games. A new version, also called "Allez Paris-Saint-Germain!", was recorded in 2010 as part of the club's 40th anniversary celebrations. Sung to the tune of " Go West " by Village People , the lyrics were rewritten with suggestions made by fans. This is the club's current official anthem. "Ô Ville Lumière" ( lit. ' Oh City of Light ' ), to the tune of " Flower of Scotland ", is another veritable club anthem for PSG supporters. Other notable chants from supporters' groups in the Boulogne and Auteuil stands include "Le Parc est à nous" ( lit. ' The Parc is ours ' ), "Ici, c'est Paris!" ( lit. ' This is Paris! ' ), and "Paris est magique!" ( lit. ' Paris is magical! ' ). Both stands began exchanging these chants during PSG matches in the 1990s. "Ici, c'est Paris!" and "Paris est magique!" are also the club's most iconic mottos. " Who Said I Would " by Phill Collins is also a traditional anthem for the fans. The song has accompanied the players' entry into the field since 1992. Distinctive shirts [ edit ] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Paris Saint-Germain FC kits . During their first three seasons of existence, the home shirt of Paris Saint-Germain was red with blue and white details in its sleeves and neck to bring together the three colours of the club: the red and blue of Paris , and the white of Saint-Germain-en-Laye . During the 2010–11 season, PSG wore a red shirt during home matches to commemorate their 40th anniversary. The connection between Paris Saint-Germain and the city's fashion houses is a longstanding one. French fashion designer Daniel Hechter became PSG president in 1973 and designed the club's traditional home look that same year: a blue shirt with a red vertical stripe flanked by two thinner white stripes (blue-white-red-white-blue). First worn in the 1973–74 season , the so-called "Hechter shirt" has remained the classic home identity of PSG ever since. Three different PSG shirt designs The famous jersey made its debut during a home Ligue 2 game against Red Star on 10 November 1973. This was also the club's maiden match at the Parc des Princes . PSG won 3–1 as Othniel Dossevi scored the club's first goal at the stadium as well as the first with the Hechter shirt. PSG stars from the 1990s and 2000s like Raí , Ronaldinho and Pauleta are associated with this kit. While wearing it, the capital club reached five European semi-finals in a row between 1993 and 1997, claimed the 1995–96 UEFA Cup Winners' Cup and achieved eight consecutive wins against Le Classique arch-rivals Olympique de Marseille between 2002 and 2004. The general belief is that Hechter based his creation on the red-and-white jersey worn by Ajax , the dominant team in Europe at the time, but with the French flag in mind. Hechter himself has denied this, though, instead claiming he was inspired by the Ford Mustang . He transposed the car's hood stripes on the shirt and employed the three colours of the club. The Hechter shirt has two alternate versions: the "reversed Hechter" (red-white-blue-white-red), introduced in the 1974–75 season , and the "white Hechter" (white-blue-red-blue-white), which premiered in the 1994–95 season. It was with the club's most distinctive away outfit, though, that fans saw the first big PSG team which won their maiden French Cup titles in 1982 and 1983, experienced their first European campaign in 1983, and claimed their maiden Ligue 1 crown in 1986. The shirt was white with blue and red vertical stripes on the left. Like the Hechter jersey, it debuted in the 1973–74 season as the away kit. Promoted by PSG president Francis Borelli , the white shirt was the club's home identity from 1981 to 1990. Now known as the "Borelli shirt," it is synonym with PSG legends from the 1980s like Safet Sušić , Luis Fernández and Dominique Bathenay . In 2025 shirts included a design in Arabic writing for the first time; they were worn in Doha on 5 January for the Trophée des Champions match. The design was created by calligrapher Fatma Al Sharshani . Crest evolution [ edit ] The club's first crest was basically the same as the original Paris FC (PFC) logo. Having to merge and give birth to PSG using Stade Saint-Germain 's stadium, the PFC crest kept its original design but the name below it changed from "Paris FC" to "Paris Saint-Germain Football Club." This badge consisted of a blue football with a red vessel inside it. The latter is a historic symbol of Paris and is present in the city's coat of arms. The name of the club was written below in red. Club crest between 1992 and 1995 PSG, however, split from PFC in 1972 and thus needed a new crest. Representing both Paris and Saint-Germain-en-Laye , the club's second crest became the basis of the one the fans know today. The round logo featured the Eiffel Tower in red against a blue background and, underneath it, two Saint-Germain symbols in white: a fleur de lys and Louis XIV 's cradle. Created by Christian Lentretien, former PSG board member and publicist by profession, this crest was first used in 1972 and lasted until 1982. The Parc des Princes , the club's home stadium, appeared below it between 1982 and 1990. The stadium was dropped from the crest in 1990. Two years later, then club owners Canal+ radically changed it in 1992. The new model had the acronym "PSG" in white against a blue-white-red-white-blue background (like the colour pattern of the Hechter shirt) with "Paris Saint-Germain" underneath in white against a black background. Under pressure from supporters, the traditional crest returned in 1995 with "Paris Saint-Germain" above the tower and "1970" below the cradle. This logo went through a slight facelift in 2002, most notably featuring a darker shade of blue. At the request of the club's Qatari owners, the traditional crest underwent a major makeover in 2013. "Paris" is now written in big white bold letters above a large Eiffel Tower , clearly putting forward the brand "Paris" instead of "Paris Saint-Germain". Underneath it, "Saint-Germain" is written in smaller letters below the fleur de lys . The cradle and the club's founding year "1970" were left out. PSG deputy general manager Jean-Claude Blanc said: "We are called Paris Saint-Germain but, above all, we are called Paris". Friendly tournaments [ edit ] Main articles: Tournoi de Paris and Tournoi Indoor de Paris-Bercy Paris Saint-Germain used to host two very famous invitational competitions: the Tournoi de Paris and the Tournoi Indoor de Paris-Bercy . Regarded as French football's most prestigious friendly tournament, the Tournoi de Paris is considered a precursor of both the Intercontinental Cup and the FIFA Club World Cup . PSG began hosting it in 1975 and were crowned champions a record seven times. Held at the Parc des Princes , the Tournoi de Paris was last organized in 2012. The Tournoi Indoor de Paris-Bercy was an indoor football tournament founded by PSG in 1984 and held annually until 1991 at the AccorHotels Arena in the 12th arrondissement of Paris . Played indoors on a synthetic field and featuring seven-a-side teams, the competition featured hosts PSG and five more clubs. The Parisians lifted the trophy on two occasions, more than any other club. ^ Cite error: The named reference psgfc was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ a b c d "Le PSG" . Saint-Germain-en-Laye . Archived from the original on 6 November 2013 . Retrieved 8 July 2013 . ^ a b c d e f "Things You Should Know About Paris Saint-Germain FC" . Culture Trip . 14 December 2016. Archived from the original on 28 December 2019 . Retrieved 28 December 2019 . ^ "Blasons, Logos, Écussons du PSG" . PSG70 . Archived from the original on 11 November 2011 . Retrieved 7 October 2010 . ^ a b c d e f "Paris Saint-Germain, la capitale scintille en rouge et bleu" . SO FOOT.com . 28 December 2015. Archived from the original on 17 April 2017 . Retrieved 10 April 2017 . ^ a b "Le PSG prend un nouveau virage" . PSG.FR . 23 July 2010. Archived from the original on 19 August 2017 . Retrieved 26 July 2010 . ^ "Allez Paris ! (par Annie Cordy)" . Bide et Musique . Archived from the original on 1 October 2020 . Retrieved 5 September 2020 . ^ "L'hommage du PSG à Annie Cordy, qui avait chanté le premier hymne du club" . Maxifoot . 4 September 2020. Archived from the original on 17 January 2021 . Retrieved 5 September 2020 . ^ "Allez Paris-Saint-Germain ! (par Les Parisiens)" . Bide et Musique . Archived from the original on 11 August 2021 . Retrieved 27 December 2019 . ^ a b "PSG: Ecoutez l'hymne des Parisiens chanté par les joueurs !" . Sportune . 22 March 2012. Archived from the original on 27 December 2019 . Retrieved 27 December 2019 . ^ "Chronologie" . Nouvel Obs . 1 June 2006. Archived from the original on 6 August 2020 . Retrieved 10 March 2019 . ^ a b "Les chants des supporters du PSG en vidéos" . PSG MAG . 6 November 2009. Archived from the original on 28 December 2019 . Retrieved 28 December 2019 . ^ "Comment "O Ville Lumière" est en train de pousser Phil Collins vers la sortie" . L'Équipe . 19 December 2015. Archived from the original on 12 April 2016 . Retrieved 17 July 2017 . ^ "VIDÉOS – Les chants les plus emblématiques des supporters dans les stades de foot en France" . France Bleu . 20 April 2018. Archived from the original on 28 December 2019 . Retrieved 28 December 2019 . ^ "Kop of Boulogne, the story" . SO FOOT.com . 5 March 2010. Archived from the original on 9 August 2019 . Retrieved 24 September 2019 . ^ "PSG Ultràs are bringing the spark back to the Parc" . Unusual Efforts . 16 November 2016. Archived from the original on 21 July 2019 . Retrieved 6 October 2019 . ^ "Parc des Princes" . The Blizzard . 4 September 2017. Archived from the original on 27 December 2019 . Retrieved 27 December 2019 . ^ a b c "Can Paris Saint-Germain become the world's richest sports club?" . Financial Times . 28 March 2014. Archived from the original on 14 July 2015 . Retrieved 13 July 2015 . ^ "Paris is Earning" . The Classical . 11 January 2012. Archived from the original on 31 January 2012 . Retrieved 13 February 2012 . ^ "Simple erreur pour la musique d'entrée des joueurs, Phil Collins devrait rester au Parc des Princes" . CulturePSG . 15 August 2021. Archived from the original on 15 August 2021 . Retrieved 18 August 2021 . ^ a b c d e f "L'historique des maillots du PSG : Les années 1970" . Histoire du PSG . 4 May 2020. Archived from the original on 18 May 2020 . Retrieved 4 May 2020 . ^ "L'historique des maillots du PSG : Les années 2010" . Histoire du PSG . 8 May 2020. Archived from the original on 13 May 2020 . Retrieved 8 May 2020 . ^ a b "At P.S.G., a Style Few Clubs Can Match" . The New York Times . 3 November 2018. Archived from the original on 26 February 2019 . Retrieved 8 March 2019 . ^ a b c "L'historique des maillots du PSG : Les années 1980" . Histoire du PSG . 5 May 2020. Archived from the original on 18 May 2020 . Retrieved 5 May 2020 . ^ a b "L'historique des maillots du PSG : Les années 1990" . Histoire du PSG . 6 May 2020. Archived from the original on 18 May 2020 . Retrieved 6 May 2020 . ^ a b "L'historique des maillots du PSG : Les années 2020" . Histoire du PSG . 25 October 2020. Archived from the original on 4 November 2020 . Retrieved 25 October 2020 . ^ "Il y a 43 ans, première au Parc des Princes, premier maillot Hechter" . PSG Canal Supporters . 10 November 2016. Archived from the original on 17 July 2020 . Retrieved 15 July 2020 . ^ Cite error: The named reference dossevi was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ "L'historique des maillots du PSG : Les années 2000" . Histoire du PSG . 7 May 2020. Archived from the original on 18 May 2020 . Retrieved 7 May 2020 . ^ Cite error: The named reference dissected was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ "Le grand retour du maillot Hechter blanc !" . PSG.FR . 5 August 2020. Archived from the original on 25 January 2021 . Retrieved 6 August 2020 . ^ "L'oeil d'Ambre sur… Le maillot Third" . PSG.FR . 16 September 2019. Archived from the original on 22 July 2020 . Retrieved 21 July 2020 . ^ "Paris Saint-Germain unveils exclusive lettering in collaboration with Fatma Al Sharshani" . EN.PSG.FR . 3 January 2025 . Retrieved 22 January 2025 . ^ Alaa, Bader (5 January 2025). "PSG Is Wearing Arabic-Printed Jerseys For Its Historic Qatar Match!" . Lovin Doha . Retrieved 22 January 2025 . ^ "Paris Saint-Germain unveils exclusive lettering in collaboration with Fatma Al Sharshani" . EN.PSG.FR . 3 January 2025 . Retrieved 22 January 2025 . ^ a b c d e f "L'écusson du PSG, évolution du logo à travers notre histoire" . Histoire du PSG . 9 May 2020. Archived from the original on 13 May 2020 . Retrieved 10 May 2020 . ^ @michelkollar (30 August 2020). "hommage à Christian Lentretien membre du conseil d'administration du @PSG_inside et président de la commission d'administration et de propagande en 1972. Publiciste de profession, il avait créé le 1er logo avec la Tour #Eiffel" ( Tweet ) (in French). Archived from the original on 30 August 2020 . Retrieved 30 August 2020 – via Twitter . ^ a b "PSG dreams bigger with its new brand logo by Dragon Rouge" . Dragon Rouge . 22 February 2013. Archived from the original on 16 November 2018 . Retrieved 8 March 2019 . ^ a b c d "Anecdotes autour du Tournoi de Paris" . PSG.FR . 12 July 2010. Archived from the original on 19 August 2017 . Retrieved 23 January 2011 . ^ a b "Tournoi Indoor de Paris-Bercy" . RSSSF . 5 October 2003. Archived from the original on 10 January 2017 . Retrieved 12 August 2018 . ^ "Há 60 anos, Vasco derrotava o Real Madrid de Di Stéfano em Paris" . Globo Esporte . 14 June 2017. Archived from the original on 7 November 2017 . Retrieved 4 November 2017 . ^ "PSG-Barcelone 2–2 : une soirée pleine de promesses" . Le Parisien . 4 August 2012. Archived from the original on 23 September 2017 . Retrieved 24 February 2017 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Colours and mascot

Colours and mascot [ edit ] Since their foundation, Paris Saint-Germain have represented both the city of Paris and the nearby royal town of Saint-Germain-en-Laye . As a result, red, blue and white are the club's traditional colours. The red and blue are Parisian colours, a nod to revolutionary figures Lafayette and Jean Sylvain Bailly , and the white is a symbol of French royalty and Saint-Germain-en-Laye. On the club's crest, the Eiffel Tower in red and the blue background represent Paris, while the fleur de lys in white is a hint to the coat of arms of Saint-Germain-en-Laye. The fleur de lys is a royal symbol as well and recalls that French King Louis XIV was born in the town. Throughout its history, PSG have brandished several crests, but all of them have featured the club's three historical colours. Likewise, PSG's most distinctive shirts have been predominantly red, blue or white, with the remaining two colours included as well. The club's official mascot, Germain the Lynx , also sports PSG's traditional colours. It was unveiled during the 2010 Tournoi de Paris in commemoration of the club's 40th anniversary, and can be seen entertaining kids in the stands of the Parc des Princes or near the pitch with the players during the warm-up. ^ Cite error: The named reference psgfc was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ a b c d "Le PSG" . Saint-Germain-en-Laye . Archived from the original on 6 November 2013 . Retrieved 8 July 2013 . ^ a b c "Things You Should Know About Paris Saint-Germain FC" . Culture Trip . 14 December 2016. Archived from the original on 28 December 2019 . Retrieved 28 December 2019 . ^ "Blasons, Logos, Écussons du PSG" . PSG70 . Archived from the original on 11 November 2011 . Retrieved 7 October 2010 . ^ "Paris Saint-Germain, la capitale scintille en rouge et bleu" . SO FOOT.com . 28 December 2015. Archived from the original on 17 April 2017 . Retrieved 10 April 2017 . ^ "Le PSG prend un nouveau virage" . PSG.FR . 23 July 2010. Archived from the original on 19 August 2017 . Retrieved 26 July 2010 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Anthems and mottos

Anthems and mottos [ edit ] Further information: Paris Saint-Germain FC supporters § Anthems and mottos "Allez Paris!," recorded by Belgian actress and singer Annie Cordy in 1971, was the club's first official anthem. A PSG fan from the start, she was part of an association of hundreds of celebrities who contributed to the foundation of the club in 1970. The club's second anthem, "Allez Paris-Saint-Germain!" by Les Parisiens, was recorded in 1977, replacing Cordy's version. The brainchild of historical PSG leader and music producer Charles Talar, he produced and released it under his homonym record label. The song's chorus became a popular chant among PSG supporters during games. A new version, also called "Allez Paris-Saint-Germain!", was recorded in 2010 as part of the club's 40th anniversary celebrations. Sung to the tune of " Go West " by Village People , the lyrics were rewritten with suggestions made by fans. This is the club's current official anthem. "Ô Ville Lumière" ( lit. ' Oh City of Light ' ), to the tune of " Flower of Scotland ", is another veritable club anthem for PSG supporters. Other notable chants from supporters' groups in the Boulogne and Auteuil stands include "Le Parc est à nous" ( lit. ' The Parc is ours ' ), "Ici, c'est Paris!" ( lit. ' This is Paris! ' ), and "Paris est magique!" ( lit. ' Paris is magical! ' ). Both stands began exchanging these chants during PSG matches in the 1990s. "Ici, c'est Paris!" and "Paris est magique!" are also the club's most iconic mottos. " Who Said I Would " by Phill Collins is also a traditional anthem for the fans. The song has accompanied the players' entry into the field since 1992. ^ "Allez Paris ! (par Annie Cordy)" . Bide et Musique . Archived from the original on 1 October 2020 . Retrieved 5 September 2020 . ^ "L'hommage du PSG à Annie Cordy, qui avait chanté le premier hymne du club" . Maxifoot . 4 September 2020. Archived from the original on 17 January 2021 . Retrieved 5 September 2020 . ^ "Allez Paris-Saint-Germain ! (par Les Parisiens)" . Bide et Musique . Archived from the original on 11 August 2021 . Retrieved 27 December 2019 . ^ a b "PSG: Ecoutez l'hymne des Parisiens chanté par les joueurs !" . Sportune . 22 March 2012. Archived from the original on 27 December 2019 . Retrieved 27 December 2019 . ^ "Chronologie" . Nouvel Obs . 1 June 2006. Archived from the original on 6 August 2020 . Retrieved 10 March 2019 . ^ a b "Les chants des supporters du PSG en vidéos" . PSG MAG . 6 November 2009. Archived from the original on 28 December 2019 . Retrieved 28 December 2019 . ^ a b c Cite error: The named reference know was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ Cite error: The named reference west was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ "Comment "O Ville Lumière" est en train de pousser Phil Collins vers la sortie" . L'Équipe . 19 December 2015. Archived from the original on 12 April 2016 . Retrieved 17 July 2017 . ^ "VIDÉOS – Les chants les plus emblématiques des supporters dans les stades de foot en France" . France Bleu . 20 April 2018. Archived from the original on 28 December 2019 . Retrieved 28 December 2019 . ^ "Kop of Boulogne, the story" . SO FOOT.com . 5 March 2010. Archived from the original on 9 August 2019 . Retrieved 24 September 2019 . ^ "PSG Ultràs are bringing the spark back to the Parc" . Unusual Efforts . 16 November 2016. Archived from the original on 21 July 2019 . Retrieved 6 October 2019 . ^ "Parc des Princes" . The Blizzard . 4 September 2017. Archived from the original on 27 December 2019 . Retrieved 27 December 2019 . ^ "Can Paris Saint-Germain become the world's richest sports club?" . Financial Times . 28 March 2014. Archived from the original on 14 July 2015 . Retrieved 13 July 2015 . ^ "Paris is Earning" . The Classical . 11 January 2012. Archived from the original on 31 January 2012 . Retrieved 13 February 2012 . ^ "Simple erreur pour la musique d'entrée des joueurs, Phil Collins devrait rester au Parc des Princes" . CulturePSG . 15 August 2021. Archived from the original on 15 August 2021 . Retrieved 18 August 2021 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Distinctive shirts

Distinctive shirts [ edit ] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Paris Saint-Germain FC kits . During their first three seasons of existence, the home shirt of Paris Saint-Germain was red with blue and white details in its sleeves and neck to bring together the three colours of the club: the red and blue of Paris , and the white of Saint-Germain-en-Laye . During the 2010–11 season, PSG wore a red shirt during home matches to commemorate their 40th anniversary. The connection between Paris Saint-Germain and the city's fashion houses is a longstanding one. French fashion designer Daniel Hechter became PSG president in 1973 and designed the club's traditional home look that same year: a blue shirt with a red vertical stripe flanked by two thinner white stripes (blue-white-red-white-blue). First worn in the 1973–74 season , the so-called "Hechter shirt" has remained the classic home identity of PSG ever since. Three different PSG shirt designs The famous jersey made its debut during a home Ligue 2 game against Red Star on 10 November 1973. This was also the club's maiden match at the Parc des Princes . PSG won 3–1 as Othniel Dossevi scored the club's first goal at the stadium as well as the first with the Hechter shirt. PSG stars from the 1990s and 2000s like Raí , Ronaldinho and Pauleta are associated with this kit. While wearing it, the capital club reached five European semi-finals in a row between 1993 and 1997, claimed the 1995–96 UEFA Cup Winners' Cup and achieved eight consecutive wins against Le Classique arch-rivals Olympique de Marseille between 2002 and 2004. The general belief is that Hechter based his creation on the red-and-white jersey worn by Ajax , the dominant team in Europe at the time, but with the French flag in mind. Hechter himself has denied this, though, instead claiming he was inspired by the Ford Mustang . He transposed the car's hood stripes on the shirt and employed the three colours of the club. The Hechter shirt has two alternate versions: the "reversed Hechter" (red-white-blue-white-red), introduced in the 1974–75 season , and the "white Hechter" (white-blue-red-blue-white), which premiered in the 1994–95 season. It was with the club's most distinctive away outfit, though, that fans saw the first big PSG team which won their maiden French Cup titles in 1982 and 1983, experienced their first European campaign in 1983, and claimed their maiden Ligue 1 crown in 1986. The shirt was white with blue and red vertical stripes on the left. Like the Hechter jersey, it debuted in the 1973–74 season as the away kit. Promoted by PSG president Francis Borelli , the white shirt was the club's home identity from 1981 to 1990. Now known as the "Borelli shirt," it is synonym with PSG legends from the 1980s like Safet Sušić , Luis Fernández and Dominique Bathenay . In 2025 shirts included a design in Arabic writing for the first time; they were worn in Doha on 5 January for the Trophée des Champions match. The design was created by calligrapher Fatma Al Sharshani . ^ a b c d e Cite error: The named reference sofoot was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ a b c d e f "L'historique des maillots du PSG : Les années 1970" . Histoire du PSG . 4 May 2020. Archived from the original on 18 May 2020 . Retrieved 4 May 2020 . ^ "L'historique des maillots du PSG : Les années 2010" . Histoire du PSG . 8 May 2020. Archived from the original on 13 May 2020 . Retrieved 8 May 2020 . ^ a b "At P.S.G., a Style Few Clubs Can Match" . The New York Times . 3 November 2018. Archived from the original on 26 February 2019 . Retrieved 8 March 2019 . ^ a b c "L'historique des maillots du PSG : Les années 1980" . Histoire du PSG . 5 May 2020. Archived from the original on 18 May 2020 . Retrieved 5 May 2020 . ^ a b "L'historique des maillots du PSG : Les années 1990" . Histoire du PSG . 6 May 2020. Archived from the original on 18 May 2020 . Retrieved 6 May 2020 . ^ a b "L'historique des maillots du PSG : Les années 2020" . Histoire du PSG . 25 October 2020. Archived from the original on 4 November 2020 . Retrieved 25 October 2020 . ^ "Il y a 43 ans, première au Parc des Princes, premier maillot Hechter" . PSG Canal Supporters . 10 November 2016. Archived from the original on 17 July 2020 . Retrieved 15 July 2020 . ^ Cite error: The named reference dossevi was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ "L'historique des maillots du PSG : Les années 2000" . Histoire du PSG . 7 May 2020. Archived from the original on 18 May 2020 . Retrieved 7 May 2020 . ^ Cite error: The named reference dissected was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ "Le grand retour du maillot Hechter blanc !" . PSG.FR . 5 August 2020. Archived from the original on 25 January 2021 . Retrieved 6 August 2020 . ^ "L'oeil d'Ambre sur… Le maillot Third" . PSG.FR . 16 September 2019. Archived from the original on 22 July 2020 . Retrieved 21 July 2020 . ^ "Paris Saint-Germain unveils exclusive lettering in collaboration with Fatma Al Sharshani" . EN.PSG.FR . 3 January 2025 . Retrieved 22 January 2025 . ^ Alaa, Bader (5 January 2025). "PSG Is Wearing Arabic-Printed Jerseys For Its Historic Qatar Match!" . Lovin Doha . Retrieved 22 January 2025 . ^ "Paris Saint-Germain unveils exclusive lettering in collaboration with Fatma Al Sharshani" . EN.PSG.FR . 3 January 2025 . Retrieved 22 January 2025 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Crest evolution

Crest evolution [ edit ] The club's first crest was basically the same as the original Paris FC (PFC) logo. Having to merge and give birth to PSG using Stade Saint-Germain 's stadium, the PFC crest kept its original design but the name below it changed from "Paris FC" to "Paris Saint-Germain Football Club." This badge consisted of a blue football with a red vessel inside it. The latter is a historic symbol of Paris and is present in the city's coat of arms. The name of the club was written below in red. Club crest between 1992 and 1995 PSG, however, split from PFC in 1972 and thus needed a new crest. Representing both Paris and Saint-Germain-en-Laye , the club's second crest became the basis of the one the fans know today. The round logo featured the Eiffel Tower in red against a blue background and, underneath it, two Saint-Germain symbols in white: a fleur de lys and Louis XIV 's cradle. Created by Christian Lentretien, former PSG board member and publicist by profession, this crest was first used in 1972 and lasted until 1982. The Parc des Princes , the club's home stadium, appeared below it between 1982 and 1990. The stadium was dropped from the crest in 1990. Two years later, then club owners Canal+ radically changed it in 1992. The new model had the acronym "PSG" in white against a blue-white-red-white-blue background (like the colour pattern of the Hechter shirt) with "Paris Saint-Germain" underneath in white against a black background. Under pressure from supporters, the traditional crest returned in 1995 with "Paris Saint-Germain" above the tower and "1970" below the cradle. This logo went through a slight facelift in 2002, most notably featuring a darker shade of blue. At the request of the club's Qatari owners, the traditional crest underwent a major makeover in 2013. "Paris" is now written in big white bold letters above a large Eiffel Tower , clearly putting forward the brand "Paris" instead of "Paris Saint-Germain". Underneath it, "Saint-Germain" is written in smaller letters below the fleur de lys . The cradle and the club's founding year "1970" were left out. PSG deputy general manager Jean-Claude Blanc said: "We are called Paris Saint-Germain but, above all, we are called Paris". ^ a b c d e f "L'écusson du PSG, évolution du logo à travers notre histoire" . Histoire du PSG . 9 May 2020. Archived from the original on 13 May 2020 . Retrieved 10 May 2020 . ^ @michelkollar (30 August 2020). "hommage à Christian Lentretien membre du conseil d'administration du @PSG_inside et président de la commission d'administration et de propagande en 1972. Publiciste de profession, il avait créé le 1er logo avec la Tour #Eiffel" ( Tweet ) (in French). Archived from the original on 30 August 2020 . Retrieved 30 August 2020 – via Twitter . ^ a b Cite error: The named reference richest was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ a b "PSG dreams bigger with its new brand logo by Dragon Rouge" . Dragon Rouge . 22 February 2013. Archived from the original on 16 November 2018 . Retrieved 8 March 2019 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Friendly tournaments

Friendly tournaments [ edit ] Main articles: Tournoi de Paris and Tournoi Indoor de Paris-Bercy Paris Saint-Germain used to host two very famous invitational competitions: the Tournoi de Paris and the Tournoi Indoor de Paris-Bercy . Regarded as French football's most prestigious friendly tournament, the Tournoi de Paris is considered a precursor of both the Intercontinental Cup and the FIFA Club World Cup . PSG began hosting it in 1975 and were crowned champions a record seven times. Held at the Parc des Princes , the Tournoi de Paris was last organized in 2012. The Tournoi Indoor de Paris-Bercy was an indoor football tournament founded by PSG in 1984 and held annually until 1991 at the AccorHotels Arena in the 12th arrondissement of Paris . Played indoors on a synthetic field and featuring seven-a-side teams, the competition featured hosts PSG and five more clubs. The Parisians lifted the trophy on two occasions, more than any other club. ^ a b c d "Anecdotes autour du Tournoi de Paris" . PSG.FR . 12 July 2010. Archived from the original on 19 August 2017 . Retrieved 23 January 2011 . ^ a b "Tournoi Indoor de Paris-Bercy" . RSSSF . 5 October 2003. Archived from the original on 10 January 2017 . Retrieved 12 August 2018 . ^ "Há 60 anos, Vasco derrotava o Real Madrid de Di Stéfano em Paris" . Globo Esporte . 14 June 2017. Archived from the original on 7 November 2017 . Retrieved 4 November 2017 . ^ "PSG-Barcelone 2–2 : une soirée pleine de promesses" . Le Parisien . 4 August 2012. Archived from the original on 23 September 2017 . Retrieved 24 February 2017 .

______________________________________________________________________

## Grounds

Grounds [ edit ] Stadiums [ edit ] Main articles: Parc des Princes and Stade Georges Lefèvre The Parc des Princes in October 2022. Since its inception, Paris Saint-Germain have played in five main stadiums: the Stade Jean-Bouin , the Stade Georges Lefèvre , the Stade Bauer , the Stade Yves-du-Manoir , and the Parc des Princes , their current home ground. PSG took on Ligue 2 promotion rivals Red Star on 10 November 1973, for the club's first match at the Parc des Princes. It was the curtain-raiser for that season's opening Ligue 1 match between Paris FC and Sochaux . PSG moved into the ground upon its return to Ligue 1 in July 1974, ironically the same year that Paris FC were relegated. Up until that point it had hosted Paris FC, who showed reluctance towards PSG playing there. From that moment on, the Parc des Princes has been the home stadium of PSG. Its most prolific season in terms of average attendance is 2019–20 , during which an average of 47,517 spectators went to the stadium for each match. The attendance record for a PSG match dates back to 13 March 1983, with 49,575 spectators present in the stands of the Parc des Princes. This match pitted PSG against Belgian side Waterschei for the UEFA Cup Winners' Cup quarterfinals. The final score was a 2–0 victory for the Parisians. During the 1970–71 season, the club played at the Stade Jean-Bouin, concurrently with the Stade Georges Lefèvre. The Jean-Bouin was privileged given that it drew significantly greater levels of fan support. The Georges Lefèvre regularly hosted PSG matches from 1972 to 1974 as well. Between 1904 and 1970, it was the home of Stade Saint-Germain , club which merged with Paris FC to form PSG in 1970. PSG played again at the Jean-Bouin in 1973–74 , alternating their home games with the Georges Lefèvre and the Parc des Princes. PSG played at the Stade de Paris, today known as Stade Bauer, for the first time during the 1971–72 season. It was used again by the club once in 1976–77 and 1977–78 , and twice in 1978–79 due to construction work on the lawn of the Parc des Princes. Similarly, the Stade Olympique Yves-du-Manoir, as its officially called, welcomed PSG for three matches in 1971–72, once more in 1974–75 , and one last time in 1975–76 because the Parc des Princes was under renovation. Training facilities [ edit ] Main articles: Campus PSG and Camp des Loges Campus PSG has been the club's training ground since July 2023. Located in Poissy , it replaced the Camp des Loges , PSG's historical training facility. Owned and financed by the club, the venue brings together PSG's male and female football, handball and judo teams, as well as the football and handball academies. Each division have its own dedicated facilities. Campus PSG will have a stadium, which will complement the club's home ground of the Parc des Princes . It is due to be built during the second phase of the project, after 2024. PSG's male team moved into Campus PSG on 10 July 2023. They completed their first group training session there on 18 July 2023, and played their first game on 21 July 2023. It was a friendly match against Le Havre which ended in a 2–0 victory for PSG. The Camp des Loges is a training ground located in Saint-Germain-en-Laye . It hosted PSG's male team from July 1970 to June 2023. The venue also turned into the training facilities of the club's academy when it opened on 4 November 1975. The current version of the Camp des Loges opened in November 2008, and is the second to have been built on the site, with the first opening its doors in June 1904. It was renamed Ooredoo Training Centre, as part of a sponsorship deal with Ooredoo , in September 2013. The complex hosted the training sessions of the club's female team between June 2023 and January 2024. The men's team left the Camp des Loges for Campus PSG in July 2023. The club's academy and female team moved to the new site in January 2024. Rugby union club Stade Français are expected to become the new tenants of the Camp des Loges in the summer of 2024. ^ a b c d e f g h i j k l "Les stades du PSG, historique" . The Football Market . 22 January 2022. Archived from the original on 19 January 2024 . Retrieved 19 January 2024 . ^ "Le PSG et Manchester City, les faux jumeaux" . Le Monde . 5 April 2016. Archived from the original on 3 April 2019 . Retrieved 2 April 2019 . ^ a b Cite error: The named reference dossevi was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ a b Cite error: The named reference pfc was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ "1973 – 1978 : Paris se replace sur la scène française" . Paris United . 19 November 2018. Archived from the original on 8 March 2019 . Retrieved 7 March 2019 . ^ "Ligue 1 2019/2020 » Attendance » Home matches" . worldfootball.net . Archived from the original on 29 November 2020 . Retrieved 20 July 2021 . ^ "PSG-OM, record d'affluence au Parc des Princes en L1" . Paris.canal-historique . 24 October 2016. Archived from the original on 23 November 2016 . Retrieved 24 January 2024 . ^ "Records affluences spectateurs Parc des Princes" . Stades et Affluences de spectateurs . Retrieved 24 January 2024 . ^ a b c d "Listes des saisons" . Histoire du PSG . 22 October 2013. Archived from the original on 6 August 2020 . Retrieved 7 July 2020 . ^ "All you need to know: Paris Saint-Germain" . Ligue 1 . 17 March 2020. Archived from the original on 17 December 2022 . Retrieved 19 January 2024 . ^ a b c d "Jour de reprise !" . PSG.FR . 10 July 2023. Archived from the original on 1 January 2024 . Retrieved 14 January 2024 . ^ a b c d e f "Clap de fin au Camp des Loges" . PSG.FR . 2 June 2023. Archived from the original on 24 June 2023 . Retrieved 24 June 2023 . ^ a b "Qu'est-ce que le Paris Saint-Germain Training Center ?" . PSG.FR . Archived from the original on 11 August 2021 . Retrieved 16 September 2019 . ^ "Le centre d'entraînement du PSG à Poissy sera finalement livré en 2022" . Le Parisien . 16 July 2019. Archived from the original on 18 July 2019 . Retrieved 18 July 2019 . ^ "Qui sera accueilli au Training Center ?" . PSG.FR . Archived from the original on 24 July 2021 . Retrieved 16 September 2019 . ^ "Le Stade" . PSG.FR . Archived from the original on 11 April 2020 . Retrieved 16 September 2019 . ^ "Première séance collective au Campus PSG" . PSG.FR . 18 July 2023. Archived from the original on 23 January 2024 . Retrieved 23 January 2024 . ^ a b "Paris commence la préparation par une victoire" . PSG.FR . 21 July 2023. Archived from the original on 23 January 2024 . Retrieved 23 January 2024 . ^ a b c "Le Camp des loges à St-Germain" . Actu.fr . 26 June 2016. Archived from the original on 10 June 2021 . Retrieved 10 June 2021 . ^ a b "La section féminine a fait sa rentrée au Campus PSG" . PSG.FR . 3 January 2024. Archived from the original on 14 January 2024 . Retrieved 14 January 2024 . ^ "Les Centres de Formation et Préformation du club intègrent le Campus à Poissy" . PSG.FR . 7 January 2024. Archived from the original on 7 January 2024 . Retrieved 14 January 2024 . ^ "Le Stade Français bien parti pour s'installer au Camp des Loges" . CulturePSG . 6 June 2023. Archived from the original on 24 June 2023 . Retrieved 24 June 2023 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Stadiums

Stadiums [ edit ] Main articles: Parc des Princes and Stade Georges Lefèvre The Parc des Princes in October 2022. Since its inception, Paris Saint-Germain have played in five main stadiums: the Stade Jean-Bouin , the Stade Georges Lefèvre , the Stade Bauer , the Stade Yves-du-Manoir , and the Parc des Princes , their current home ground. PSG took on Ligue 2 promotion rivals Red Star on 10 November 1973, for the club's first match at the Parc des Princes. It was the curtain-raiser for that season's opening Ligue 1 match between Paris FC and Sochaux . PSG moved into the ground upon its return to Ligue 1 in July 1974, ironically the same year that Paris FC were relegated. Up until that point it had hosted Paris FC, who showed reluctance towards PSG playing there. From that moment on, the Parc des Princes has been the home stadium of PSG. Its most prolific season in terms of average attendance is 2019–20 , during which an average of 47,517 spectators went to the stadium for each match. The attendance record for a PSG match dates back to 13 March 1983, with 49,575 spectators present in the stands of the Parc des Princes. This match pitted PSG against Belgian side Waterschei for the UEFA Cup Winners' Cup quarterfinals. The final score was a 2–0 victory for the Parisians. During the 1970–71 season, the club played at the Stade Jean-Bouin, concurrently with the Stade Georges Lefèvre. The Jean-Bouin was privileged given that it drew significantly greater levels of fan support. The Georges Lefèvre regularly hosted PSG matches from 1972 to 1974 as well. Between 1904 and 1970, it was the home of Stade Saint-Germain , club which merged with Paris FC to form PSG in 1970. PSG played again at the Jean-Bouin in 1973–74 , alternating their home games with the Georges Lefèvre and the Parc des Princes. PSG played at the Stade de Paris, today known as Stade Bauer, for the first time during the 1971–72 season. It was used again by the club once in 1976–77 and 1977–78 , and twice in 1978–79 due to construction work on the lawn of the Parc des Princes. Similarly, the Stade Olympique Yves-du-Manoir, as its officially called, welcomed PSG for three matches in 1971–72, once more in 1974–75 , and one last time in 1975–76 because the Parc des Princes was under renovation. ^ a b c d e f g h i j k l "Les stades du PSG, historique" . The Football Market . 22 January 2022. Archived from the original on 19 January 2024 . Retrieved 19 January 2024 . ^ "Le PSG et Manchester City, les faux jumeaux" . Le Monde . 5 April 2016. Archived from the original on 3 April 2019 . Retrieved 2 April 2019 . ^ a b Cite error: The named reference dossevi was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ a b Cite error: The named reference pfc was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ "1973 – 1978 : Paris se replace sur la scène française" . Paris United . 19 November 2018. Archived from the original on 8 March 2019 . Retrieved 7 March 2019 . ^ "Ligue 1 2019/2020 » Attendance » Home matches" . worldfootball.net . Archived from the original on 29 November 2020 . Retrieved 20 July 2021 . ^ "PSG-OM, record d'affluence au Parc des Princes en L1" . Paris.canal-historique . 24 October 2016. Archived from the original on 23 November 2016 . Retrieved 24 January 2024 . ^ "Records affluences spectateurs Parc des Princes" . Stades et Affluences de spectateurs . Retrieved 24 January 2024 . ^ a b c d "Listes des saisons" . Histoire du PSG . 22 October 2013. Archived from the original on 6 August 2020 . Retrieved 7 July 2020 . ^ "All you need to know: Paris Saint-Germain" . Ligue 1 . 17 March 2020. Archived from the original on 17 December 2022 . Retrieved 19 January 2024 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Training facilities

Training facilities [ edit ] Main articles: Campus PSG and Camp des Loges Campus PSG has been the club's training ground since July 2023. Located in Poissy , it replaced the Camp des Loges , PSG's historical training facility. Owned and financed by the club, the venue brings together PSG's male and female football, handball and judo teams, as well as the football and handball academies. Each division have its own dedicated facilities. Campus PSG will have a stadium, which will complement the club's home ground of the Parc des Princes . It is due to be built during the second phase of the project, after 2024. PSG's male team moved into Campus PSG on 10 July 2023. They completed their first group training session there on 18 July 2023, and played their first game on 21 July 2023. It was a friendly match against Le Havre which ended in a 2–0 victory for PSG. The Camp des Loges is a training ground located in Saint-Germain-en-Laye . It hosted PSG's male team from July 1970 to June 2023. The venue also turned into the training facilities of the club's academy when it opened on 4 November 1975. The current version of the Camp des Loges opened in November 2008, and is the second to have been built on the site, with the first opening its doors in June 1904. It was renamed Ooredoo Training Centre, as part of a sponsorship deal with Ooredoo , in September 2013. The complex hosted the training sessions of the club's female team between June 2023 and January 2024. The men's team left the Camp des Loges for Campus PSG in July 2023. The club's academy and female team moved to the new site in January 2024. Rugby union club Stade Français are expected to become the new tenants of the Camp des Loges in the summer of 2024. ^ a b c d "Jour de reprise !" . PSG.FR . 10 July 2023. Archived from the original on 1 January 2024 . Retrieved 14 January 2024 . ^ a b c d e f "Clap de fin au Camp des Loges" . PSG.FR . 2 June 2023. Archived from the original on 24 June 2023 . Retrieved 24 June 2023 . ^ a b "Qu'est-ce que le Paris Saint-Germain Training Center ?" . PSG.FR . Archived from the original on 11 August 2021 . Retrieved 16 September 2019 . ^ "Le centre d'entraînement du PSG à Poissy sera finalement livré en 2022" . Le Parisien . 16 July 2019. Archived from the original on 18 July 2019 . Retrieved 18 July 2019 . ^ "Qui sera accueilli au Training Center ?" . PSG.FR . Archived from the original on 24 July 2021 . Retrieved 16 September 2019 . ^ "Le Stade" . PSG.FR . Archived from the original on 11 April 2020 . Retrieved 16 September 2019 . ^ "Première séance collective au Campus PSG" . PSG.FR . 18 July 2023. Archived from the original on 23 January 2024 . Retrieved 23 January 2024 . ^ a b "Paris commence la préparation par une victoire" . PSG.FR . 21 July 2023. Archived from the original on 23 January 2024 . Retrieved 23 January 2024 . ^ a b c "Le Camp des loges à St-Germain" . Actu.fr . 26 June 2016. Archived from the original on 10 June 2021 . Retrieved 10 June 2021 . ^ a b "La section féminine a fait sa rentrée au Campus PSG" . PSG.FR . 3 January 2024. Archived from the original on 14 January 2024 . Retrieved 14 January 2024 . ^ "Les Centres de Formation et Préformation du club intègrent le Campus à Poissy" . PSG.FR . 7 January 2024. Archived from the original on 7 January 2024 . Retrieved 14 January 2024 . ^ "Le Stade Français bien parti pour s'installer au Camp des Loges" . CulturePSG . 6 June 2023. Archived from the original on 24 June 2023 . Retrieved 24 June 2023 .

______________________________________________________________________

## Records and statistics

Records and statistics [ edit ] Main article: List of Paris Saint-Germain FC records and statistics See also: List of Paris Saint-Germain FC seasons and Paris Saint-Germain FC in international football PSG's starting lineup ahead of a UEFA Champions League match away to Dynamo Kyiv during the 2012–13 season Paris Saint-Germain holds many records, most notably being the most successful French club in history in terms of official titles won, with 50. They are the record holders of all national competitions, having clinched twelve Ligue 1 championships, fourteen Coupe de France, nine Coupe de la Ligue, and twelve Trophée des Champions. Their trophy cabinet also includes one Ligue 2 title. In international football, PSG have claimed one UEFA Cup Winners' Cup and one UEFA Intertoto Cup . Their victory in the 1995–96 UEFA Cup Winners' Cup makes PSG the sole French side to have won this trophy, one of only two French clubs to have won a major European competition , and the youngest European team to do so. They are also the only side to have won the Ligue 1 title after being at the top of the table from the first until the last round ( 2022–23 ), the Coupe de France without conceding a single goal ( 1992–93 and 2016–17 ), five Coupe de la Ligue in a row (2014–2018), four back-to-back Coupe de France (2015–2018), and eight consecutive Trophée des Champions (2013–2020). PSG have won all four national titles in a single season on four occasions. This feat is known as the domestic quadruple . The Red and Blues have completed the domestic double , the league and league cup double , the domestic cup double , the domestic treble and the league three-peat several times as well. Therefore, PSG are the club with the most domestic doubles and league and league cup doubles, one of two sides to have achieved the league three-peat twice, and the only team to have won the domestic cup double, the domestic treble and the domestic quadruple. Since their inception, PSG have completed 53 seasons, of which 50 have been played in the highest division in French football , known as Ligue 1 . In 2022–23 , they celebrated their 49th consecutive campaign in Ligue 1, which makes them the competitions's longest-serving club. PSG have played continuously in Ligue 1 from the 1974–75 season onwards. Since then, the Parisians have won twelve league titles, finishing first more frequently than in any other position. Having come second in nine league campaigns, PSG have therefore made up the top two spots on 21 occasions. They have also reached the top five 29 times, which represents more than half of the club's seasons in Ligue 1. PSG's lowest-ever finish is 16th, both in 1971–72 (their first in Ligue 1) and 2007–08 , when they escaped relegation on the final day of the season, with a 2–1 win at Sochaux . ^ a b Cite error: The named reference history was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ a b c d Cite error: The named reference titles was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ "Statistiques" . Histoire du PSG . 13 May 2017. Archived from the original on 26 November 2020 . Retrieved 22 November 2020 . ^ "Le PSG recordman de tous les titres nationaux, Verratti de la L1" . CulturePSG . 24 April 2022. Archived from the original on 27 April 2022 . Retrieved 27 April 2022 . ^ Cite error: The named reference UCWC was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ "Le Paris Saint-Germain et les finales européennes, acte 3 !" . PSG.FR . 21 August 2020. Archived from the original on 11 August 2021 . Retrieved 21 August 2020 . ^ "2023, un titre historique" . PSG.FR . 28 May 2023. Archived from the original on 24 June 2023 . Retrieved 25 June 2023 . ^ "Défense parfaite en Coupe de France : et de 3 pour le PSG !" . Histoire du PSG . 4 April 2019. Archived from the original on 4 April 2019 . Retrieved 4 April 2019 . ^ "Le PSG reste au sommet" . LFP.fr . 1 April 2017. Archived from the original on 2 April 2017 . Retrieved 1 April 2017 . ^ "Le PSG en Coupe de France : 4 à la suite, record national !" . LFP.fr . 8 May 2018. Archived from the original on 2 April 2017 . Retrieved 9 May 2018 . ^ "Paris St-Germain: Mauricio Pochettino wins first trophy of managerial career" . BBC . 13 January 2021. Archived from the original on 14 January 2021 . Retrieved 13 January 2021 . ^ Cite error: The named reference Saisons was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ "Les matchs du PSG en chiffres" . Histoire du PSG . 21 June 2020. Archived from the original on 22 June 2020 . Retrieved 6 February 2020 . ^ a b c d e f g "50e saison en Ligue 1 pour les Parisiens !" . PSG.FR . 4 August 2022. Archived from the original on 5 August 2022 . Retrieved 6 August 2022 . ^ a b "Ligue 1 Uber Eats : la longévité des clubs à la loupe" . Ligue 1 Uber Eats . 11 February 2021. Archived from the original on 12 February 2021 . Retrieved 11 February 2021 .

______________________________________________________________________

## Supporters

Supporters [ edit ] Main article: Paris Saint-Germain FC supporters PSG fans at the 2006 French Cup final . Paris Saint-Germain are the most popular football club in France, accounting for 22% of the country's fan base. With an estimated 35 million fans, PSG are also one of the most followed teams in the world. The Parc des Princes has been its home ground since July 1974. It has four stands: Tribune Auteuil, Tribune Paris, Tribune Borelli, and Tribune Boulogne. Historically, the Auteuil and Boulogne stands, better known as the Virage Auteuil (VA) and the Kop of Boulogne (KoB), have been home to PSG's most loyal fans, the supporters' groups known as ultras , making the Parc one of the most feared venues in Europe and one of the best in terms of atmosphere. Other friendlier, more family-oriented groups have regularly met in the stands of Paris and Borelli, including the club's first supporters' group, Les Amis du PSG, founded in 1975. Lacking a large and passionate following, the club began offering cheaper season tickets to young fans in 1976. They were housed in Kop K, located in the blue K section of the Paris stand at the Parc des Princes. Following increased ticket prices, fans in Kop K moved to the Boulogne stand in 1978, and the Kop of Boulogne was born. The club's first Italian-style ultra group, the Boulogne Boys, was founded there in 1985, followed by the English-inspired kopistes Gavroches and Rangers. However, several KoB groups, such as Commando Pirate and Casual Firm, took English hooligans as dubious role models, and violence quickly escalated. In response, the club's owners, Canal+ , encouraged non-violent KoB fans to gather at the other end of the stadium, giving rise to the Virage Auteuil in 1991, spearheaded by the ultra groups Supras Auteuil, Lutece Falco and Tigris Mystic. The measure worked at first, but a violent, racially motivated rivalry slowly emerged between the two stands. The situation came to a head in 2010 before a match against Marseille . Boulogne fan Yann Lorence was killed following a brawl between groups from both stands outside the Parc, forcing PSG president Robin Leproux to take action. In what became known as the Plan Leproux, the club exiled all groups from the Parc and also banned them from away matches. It took six years for the ultras to regain their place in the stadium. Former VA supporters formed the Collectif Ultras Paris (CUP) in May 2016, and the club agreed to their return in October 2016. PSG have granted official status to 16 groups at the Parc des Princes since 1975. Based in Auteuil, the CUP are currently the only officially recognized ultra group by the club. They share the stadium with fellow authorized groups Hoolicool, Vikings 27 and Handicap PSG in the Paris stand; and Les Amis du PSG, Titi Fosi and PSG Grand Sud in the Borelli stand. Previously, PSG also recognized Supras Auteuil, Lutece Falco and Tigris Mystic from Auteuil; Boulogne Boys, Gavroches and Rangers from Boulogne; and Authentiks, Puissance Paris and Brigade Paris from Paris. More recently, unofficial groups Block Parisii and Resistance Parisienne are trying to convince PSG of relaunching the KoB. Karsud, the club's last remaining organized hooligan firm , are also still active, but have been banned from all club matches since 2017. ^ "Le PSG est le nouveau club préféré des Français" . Onze Mondial . 22 March 2018. Archived from the original on 11 September 2019 . Retrieved 12 September 2019 . ^ "The Top 15 Biggest and Most Supported Football Teams in the World" . Zeelo Blog . 19 April 2019. Archived from the original on 20 September 2019 . Retrieved 12 September 2019 . ^ Cite error: The named reference StadesPSG was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ "Plan du Parc" . PSG.FR . Archived from the original on 3 March 2017 . Retrieved 2 March 2017 . ^ "PSG Ultras: Key groups, famous incidents and best tifos" . Football Ground Guide . 17 February 2024 . Retrieved 7 February 2025 . ^ a b c "The History of Paris Saint-Germain's Ultras" . Breaking The Lines . 13 June 2021 . Retrieved 7 February 2025 . ^ a b "The last of the ultras: Paris Saint-Germain and the repression of football fans in France" . These Football Times . 28 February 2018 . Retrieved 7 February 2025 . ^ a b c d e f "La mobilité des supporters de football et ses nouvelles formes : sécurité, réglementations et déplacements" (PDF) . HAL Thèses . 15 September 2023 . Retrieved 19 February 2025 . ^ a b "1973-1978 : Naissance d'une ferveur" . Paris United . 25 November 2018. Archived from the original on 20 September 2019 . Retrieved 20 September 2019 . ^ a b Cite error: The named reference trust was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ a b c d e f "Paris is Earning" . The Classical . 11 January 2012. Archived from the original on 31 January 2012 . Retrieved 11 October 2019 . ^ a b "Période 1978 - 1991 : l'ambiance du Parc" . Paris United . 7 December 2018. Archived from the original on 20 September 2019 . Retrieved 20 September 2019 . ^ "How PSG lost its soul" . LookLeft . 1 December 2013. Archived from the original on 23 September 2018 . Retrieved 22 September 2018 . ^ "ULTRAS : une brève histoire des supporters du PSG" . 90min . 27 March 2019. Archived from the original on 24 September 2019 . Retrieved 24 September 2019 . ^ "La nouvelle cartographie des groupes de supporters parisiens" . SO FOOT.com . 11 January 2013. Archived from the original on 29 March 2019 . Retrieved 24 September 2019 . ^ a b "L'histoire du PSG période 1991-1998 : L'émergence des groupes de supporters" . Paris United . 26 December 2018. Archived from the original on 20 September 2019 . Retrieved 20 September 2019 . ^ "Boulogne et Auteuil, histoire d'une opposition" . SO FOOT.com . 21 December 2011. Archived from the original on 8 June 2020 . Retrieved 7 October 2019 . ^ a b "Why the return of Paris Saint-Germain's ultras is such a big deal" . ESPN FC . 12 November 2016. Archived from the original on 23 November 2016 . Retrieved 22 November 2016 . ^ "COLLECTIF ULTRAS PARIS (CUP)" . Assoce . 18 May 2016 . Retrieved 4 May 2025 . ^ a b c "Associations Supporters 2006" . PSG.FR . 24 May 2006. Archived from the original on 24 May 2006 . Retrieved 12 February 2025 . ^ a b c "Associations Supporters 2008" . PSG.FR . 14 April 2008. Archived from the original on 14 April 2008 . Retrieved 12 February 2025 . ^ a b "Incidents face à l'Etoile Rouge : qui sont les ultras du PSG ?" . Le Parisien . 5 October 2018. Archived from the original on 6 October 2018 . Retrieved 30 November 2019 . ^ "PSG : le groupe de supporters Block Parisii grandit sous le regard méfiant du club" . Le Parisien . 23 April 2019. Archived from the original on 27 December 2019 . Retrieved 30 November 2019 . ^ "PSG : au Parc de Princes, les ultras tentent de s'imposer côté Boulogne" . Le Parisien . 24 September 2019. Archived from the original on 23 November 2019 . Retrieved 30 November 2019 . ^ "Paris Saint-Germain ultras lose two supporter groups" . ESPN FC . 9 May 2017. Archived from the original on 11 August 2017 . Retrieved 11 August 2017 . ^ "PSG : menaces de mort et gardes à vue au sein du Collectif ultras Paris" . Le Parisien . 14 June 2017. Archived from the original on 3 December 2019 . Retrieved 30 November 2019 .

______________________________________________________________________

## Rivalries

Rivalries [ edit ] Le Classique [ edit ] Main article: Le Classique Paris Saint-Germain shares an intense rivalry with Olympique de Marseille ; matches between the two teams are referred to as Le Classique . The clubs are the two most successful clubs in French football , and the only French teams to have won major European trophies . Therefore, the fixture is the biggest rivalry in France. PSG and OM were the dominant teams prior to the emergence of Olympique Lyonnais in the 2000s, and are the most followed French teams internationally. Both clubs are at or near the top of the French attendance lists each season. Their meetings during the 1970s gave little indication the two would become major adversaries. The newly formed Parisians were trying to assemble a competitive team, while the Olympians were Ligue 1 contenders. The rivalry began in earnest in 1986 when PSG won their first championship and OM was bought by Bernard Tapie . By the end of the decade, PSG was fighting for the 1988–89 title against Tapie's Marseille. The accusations made by PSG president Francis Borelli against Tapie and OM for fixing matches during that season were a contributor to their growing rivalry. In the 1990s, tensions between the two sides escalated. French TV channel Canal+ bought PSG in 1991 with the aim of breaking Marseille's hegemony but then agreed with Tapie to emphasize the animosity between them as a way to promote the league. With equivalent financial backing, PSG and OM became the main contenders in the title race. Both sides were less successful in the late 1990s and the 2000s but the rivalry remained strong. Since the 2010s, the matchup has been dominated by PSG, and the significant investment of their Qatari owners has created a wide gap between the clubs. ^ a b c "Everything You Need to Know About Le Classique Rivalry Between PSG and Marseille" . Bleacher Report . 28 February 2014. Archived from the original on 9 July 2021 . Retrieved 8 July 2021 . ^ "Du Classico au Classique ?" . CulturePSG . 26 October 2019. Archived from the original on 28 October 2019 . Retrieved 29 October 2019 . ^ "The top 50 football derbies on the world 20–11" . Mirror Online . 13 April 2018. Archived from the original on 29 March 2019 . Retrieved 29 March 2019 . ^ "The 50 biggest derbies in world football" . FourFourTwo . 12 December 2020. Archived from the original on 4 February 2021 . Retrieved 7 February 2021 . ^ a b c d "Joey Barton puts the "punch" back into the Marseille-PSG rivalry" . Bleacher Report . 4 September 2012. Archived from the original on 3 October 2012 . Retrieved 29 July 2013 . ^ Cite error: The named reference popular was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ Cite error: The named reference support was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ a b c d "Marseille vs PSG: France's bitter and violent north-south divide laid bare" . FourFourTwo . 1 June 2003. Archived from the original on 7 November 2017 . Retrieved 3 November 2017 . ^ a b Cite error: The named reference archrivals was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ Cite error: The named reference ten was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ a b c " 'Le Classique', French football's fallen icon" . France 24 . 16 March 2019. Archived from the original on 25 October 2019 . Retrieved 25 October 2019 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Le Classique

Le Classique [ edit ] Main article: Le Classique Paris Saint-Germain shares an intense rivalry with Olympique de Marseille ; matches between the two teams are referred to as Le Classique . The clubs are the two most successful clubs in French football , and the only French teams to have won major European trophies . Therefore, the fixture is the biggest rivalry in France. PSG and OM were the dominant teams prior to the emergence of Olympique Lyonnais in the 2000s, and are the most followed French teams internationally. Both clubs are at or near the top of the French attendance lists each season. Their meetings during the 1970s gave little indication the two would become major adversaries. The newly formed Parisians were trying to assemble a competitive team, while the Olympians were Ligue 1 contenders. The rivalry began in earnest in 1986 when PSG won their first championship and OM was bought by Bernard Tapie . By the end of the decade, PSG was fighting for the 1988–89 title against Tapie's Marseille. The accusations made by PSG president Francis Borelli against Tapie and OM for fixing matches during that season were a contributor to their growing rivalry. In the 1990s, tensions between the two sides escalated. French TV channel Canal+ bought PSG in 1991 with the aim of breaking Marseille's hegemony but then agreed with Tapie to emphasize the animosity between them as a way to promote the league. With equivalent financial backing, PSG and OM became the main contenders in the title race. Both sides were less successful in the late 1990s and the 2000s but the rivalry remained strong. Since the 2010s, the matchup has been dominated by PSG, and the significant investment of their Qatari owners has created a wide gap between the clubs. ^ a b c "Everything You Need to Know About Le Classique Rivalry Between PSG and Marseille" . Bleacher Report . 28 February 2014. Archived from the original on 9 July 2021 . Retrieved 8 July 2021 . ^ "Du Classico au Classique ?" . CulturePSG . 26 October 2019. Archived from the original on 28 October 2019 . Retrieved 29 October 2019 . ^ "The top 50 football derbies on the world 20–11" . Mirror Online . 13 April 2018. Archived from the original on 29 March 2019 . Retrieved 29 March 2019 . ^ "The 50 biggest derbies in world football" . FourFourTwo . 12 December 2020. Archived from the original on 4 February 2021 . Retrieved 7 February 2021 . ^ a b c d "Joey Barton puts the "punch" back into the Marseille-PSG rivalry" . Bleacher Report . 4 September 2012. Archived from the original on 3 October 2012 . Retrieved 29 July 2013 . ^ Cite error: The named reference popular was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ Cite error: The named reference support was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ a b c d "Marseille vs PSG: France's bitter and violent north-south divide laid bare" . FourFourTwo . 1 June 2003. Archived from the original on 7 November 2017 . Retrieved 3 November 2017 . ^ a b Cite error: The named reference archrivals was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ Cite error: The named reference ten was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ a b c " 'Le Classique', French football's fallen icon" . France 24 . 16 March 2019. Archived from the original on 25 October 2019 . Retrieved 25 October 2019 .

______________________________________________________________________

## Ownership and finances

Ownership and finances [ edit ] Main article: Paris Saint-Germain FC ownership and finances PSG's Kylian Mbappé , Lionel Messi and Neymar in 2021. Paris Saint-Germain were initially fan-owned and had 20,000 members. The club was run by board members Guy Crescent, Pierre-Étienne Guyot and Henri Patrelle. A group of wealthy French businessmen, led by Daniel Hechter and Francis Borelli , would then buy the club in 1973. PSG changed hands in 1991, when Canal+ took over, and then again in 2006 with the arrival of Colony Capital . Qatar Sports Investments (QSI) have been the majority owners of PSG since 2011, holding 87.5% of the shares in 2012. Arctos Partners owns the remaining 12.5%. Backed by the Qatari government, QSI acquired a majority stake in 2011 and then became the Parisian outfit's sole owner in 2012. PSG are therefore a state-owned club, which makes them one of the wealthiest teams in the world. In 2023, Arctos Partners acquired a minority stake in the Qatar-funded French team. QSI chairman Nasser Al-Khelaifi has been PSG president since the takeover. However, Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani , the Emir of Qatar , has the final word on every major decision of the club. He is both the chairman of the QIA and the founder of QSI. Upon its arrival, QSI pledged to form a team capable of winning the UEFA Champions League. PSG have spent over €1.9bn on player transfers since the summer of 2011. These massive expenditures have translated in PSG's domination of French football but have not yet brought home the coveted UCL trophy as well as causing problems with UEFA 's Financial Fair Play regulations. PSG had the third-highest revenue in the footballing world with annual earnings of €806m according to Deloitte , and were the world's seventh-most valuable football club , worth $4.4bn according to Forbes magazine in January 2025. This financial growth has been supported by PSG's Qatari owners; the team's on-pitch success; high-profile signings, including Zlatan Ibrahimović , Neymar , Kylian Mbappé and Lionel Messi ; and lucrative sponsorship deals with the Qatar Tourism Authority , Nike , Air Jordan , Accor and Qatar Airways . ^ a b Cite error: The named reference history was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ Cite error: The named reference santiago was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ Cite error: The named reference hechter was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ a b Cite error: The named reference finances was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ a b "Le Qatar sans limite" . Le Parisien . 7 March 2012. Archived from the original on 6 December 2016 . Retrieved 7 March 2012 . ^ a b "US firm Arctos Partners takes minority stake in Paris Saint-Germain" . France 24 . 7 December 2023 . Retrieved 8 December 2023 . ^ "PSG's Qatari owners tap Neymar to promote QNB" . SportsPro Media . 10 December 2018. Archived from the original on 3 August 2020 . Retrieved 27 March 2019 . ^ Cite error: The named reference money was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ "Paris Saint-Germain: Can world's richest club rule Europe?" . The Independent . 7 August 2012. Archived from the original on 27 March 2019 . Retrieved 11 March 2019 . ^ "PSG v Manchester City emblematic of how Gulf rivals are fuelling football" . The Guardian . 5 April 2016. Archived from the original on 9 March 2019 . Retrieved 11 March 2019 . ^ a b "PSG's Champions League fortunes won't change until the club changes its zero-sum gamesmanship" . Yahoo! Sports . 6 March 2019. Archived from the original on 7 March 2019 . Retrieved 7 March 2019 . ^ "Al-Thani, Al-Khelaïfi, Blanc, Henrique : qui dirige vraiment le PSG ?" . Le Parisien . 5 May 2018. Archived from the original on 27 March 2019 . Retrieved 27 March 2019 . ^ "Profile: Qatar Emir, Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani" . BBC News . 25 June 2013. Archived from the original on 27 March 2019 . Retrieved 27 March 2019 . ^ Cite error: The named reference psgfc was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ a b Cite error: The named reference transfers was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ a b Cite error: The named reference spent was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ "Football Leaks : les contrats surévalués du PSG version qatarie" . Le Monde . 2 November 2018. Archived from the original on 6 March 2019 . Retrieved 7 March 2019 . ^ "Deloitte Football Money League 2025" . Deloitte . 23 January 2025. Archived from the original on 31 January 2025 . Retrieved 31 January 2025 . ^ "Paris Saint-Germain on the Forbes Soccer Team Valuations List" . Forbes . Archived from the original on 14 May 2020 . Retrieved 15 May 2020 . ^ a b "Fin du contrat avec Qatar Tourism Authority : le PSG vers un nouveau modèle économique" . Le Parisien . 4 July 2019 . Retrieved 4 July 2019 . ^ "PSG Jordan Deal Extended Until 2022" . Footy Headlines . 6 January 2021. Archived from the original on 14 May 2021 . Retrieved 14 May 2021 . ^ "Le PSG dévoile son nouveau maillot domicile pour la saison prochaine" . Le Parisien . 29 June 2022. Archived from the original on 29 June 2022 . Retrieved 29 June 2022 .

______________________________________________________________________

## Honours

Honours [ edit ] See also: List of Paris Saint-Germain FC records and statistics As of 2024–25 UEFA Champions League . Type Competitions Titles Seasons Domestic Ligue 1 13 1985–86 , 1993–94 , 2012–13 , 2013–14 , 2014–15 , 2015–16 , 2017–18 , 2018–19 , 2019–20 , 2021–22 , 2022–23 , 2023–24 , 2024–25 Coupe de France 16 1981–82 , 1982–83 , 1992–93 , 1994–95 , 1997–98 , 2003–04 , 2005–06 , 2009–10 , 2014–15 , 2015–16 , 2016–17 , 2017–18 , 2019–20 , 2020–21 , 2023–24 , 2024–25 Coupe de la Ligue 9 1994–95 , 1997–98 , 2007–08 , 2013–14 , 2014–15 , 2015–16 , 2016–17 , 2017–18 , 2019–20 Trophée des Champions 13 1995 , 1998 , 2013 , 2014 , 2015 , 2016 , 2017 , 2018 , 2019 , 2020 , 2022 , 2023 , 2024 Ligue 2 1 1970–71 Continental UEFA Champions League 1 2024–25 UEFA Cup Winners' Cup 1 1995–96 UEFA Intertoto Cup 1 2001 record ^ Cite error: The named reference titles was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ "Ligue 1 » Champions" . WorldFootball.net . Retrieved 6 May 2025 . ^ "Coupe de France » Champions" . WorldFootball.net . Retrieved 6 May 2025 . ^ "Coupe de la Ligue : le palmarès par titres depuis 1995" . L'Équipe (in French) . Retrieved 6 May 2025 . ^ "Trophée des Champions : le palmarès par titres depuis 1995" . L'Équipe (in French) . Retrieved 6 May 2025 . ^ "Ligue 2 » Champions" . WorldFootball.net . Retrieved 6 May 2025 . ^ "Champions League » Champions" . WorldFootball.net . Retrieved 31 May 2025 . ^ "Cup Winners Cup » Champions" . WorldFootball.net . Retrieved 6 May 2025 . ^ "UI-Cup » Champions" . WorldFootball.net . Retrieved 6 May 2025 .

______________________________________________________________________

## Players

Players [ edit ] Main articles: List of Paris Saint-Germain FC players , List of Paris Saint-Germain FC players (25–99 appearances) , and List of Paris Saint-Germain FC players (1–24 appearances) Current squad [ edit ] As of 3 February 2025 . Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules ; some limited exceptions apply. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. No. Pos. Nation Player 1 GK ITA Gianluigi Donnarumma ( vice-captain ) 2 DF MAR Achraf Hakimi ( vice-captain ) 3 DF FRA Presnel Kimpembe ( vice-captain ) 5 DF BRA Marquinhos ( captain ) 7 FW GEO Khvicha Kvaratskhelia 8 MF ESP Fabián Ruiz 9 FW POR Gonçalo Ramos 10 FW FRA Ousmane Dembélé 14 FW FRA Désiré Doué 17 MF POR Vitinha 19 MF KOR Lee Kang-in 21 DF FRA Lucas Hernandez No. Pos. Nation Player 24 MF FRA Senny Mayulu 25 DF POR Nuno Mendes 29 FW FRA Bradley Barcola 33 MF FRA Warren Zaïre-Emery 35 DF BRA Lucas Beraldo 39 GK RUS Matvey Safonov 42 DF FRA Yoram Zague 45 DF MAR Naoufel El Hannach 49 FW FRA Ibrahim Mbaye 51 DF ECU Willian Pacho 80 GK ESP Arnau Tenas 87 MF POR João Neves Out on loan [ edit ] Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules ; some limited exceptions apply. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. No. Pos. Nation Player — GK FRA Lucas Lavallée (at Aubagne until 30 June 2025) — DF FRA Nordi Mukiele (at Bayer Leverkusen until 30 June 2025) — DF SVK Milan Škriniar (at Fenerbahçe until 30 June 2025) — MF BRA Gabriel Moscardo (at Reims until 30 June 2025) — MF POR Renato Sanches (at Benfica until 30 June 2025) No. Pos. Nation Player — MF ESP Carlos Soler (at West Ham United until 30 June 2025) — FW ESP Marco Asensio (at Aston Villa until 30 June 2025) — FW MAR Ilyes Housni (at Le Havre until 30 June 2025) — FW FRA Randal Kolo Muani (at Juventus until 30 June 2025) ^ "Players|First team|Paris Saint-Germain" . PSG.FR. Archived from the original on 16 February 2021 . Retrieved 1 January 2025 . ^ a b c d "Marquinhos désigné capitaine du Paris Saint-Germain pour la saison 2024-2025" . PSG.FR . 13 September 2024. Archived from the original on 13 September 2024 . Retrieved 17 September 2024 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Current squad

Current squad [ edit ] As of 3 February 2025 . Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules ; some limited exceptions apply. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. No. Pos. Nation Player 1 GK ITA Gianluigi Donnarumma ( vice-captain ) 2 DF MAR Achraf Hakimi ( vice-captain ) 3 DF FRA Presnel Kimpembe ( vice-captain ) 5 DF BRA Marquinhos ( captain ) 7 FW GEO Khvicha Kvaratskhelia 8 MF ESP Fabián Ruiz 9 FW POR Gonçalo Ramos 10 FW FRA Ousmane Dembélé 14 FW FRA Désiré Doué 17 MF POR Vitinha 19 MF KOR Lee Kang-in 21 DF FRA Lucas Hernandez No. Pos. Nation Player 24 MF FRA Senny Mayulu 25 DF POR Nuno Mendes 29 FW FRA Bradley Barcola 33 MF FRA Warren Zaïre-Emery 35 DF BRA Lucas Beraldo 39 GK RUS Matvey Safonov 42 DF FRA Yoram Zague 45 DF MAR Naoufel El Hannach 49 FW FRA Ibrahim Mbaye 51 DF ECU Willian Pacho 80 GK ESP Arnau Tenas 87 MF POR João Neves ^ "Players|First team|Paris Saint-Germain" . PSG.FR. Archived from the original on 16 February 2021 . Retrieved 1 January 2025 . ^ a b c d "Marquinhos désigné capitaine du Paris Saint-Germain pour la saison 2024-2025" . PSG.FR . 13 September 2024. Archived from the original on 13 September 2024 . Retrieved 17 September 2024 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Out on loan

Out on loan [ edit ] Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules ; some limited exceptions apply. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. No. Pos. Nation Player — GK FRA Lucas Lavallée (at Aubagne until 30 June 2025) — DF FRA Nordi Mukiele (at Bayer Leverkusen until 30 June 2025) — DF SVK Milan Škriniar (at Fenerbahçe until 30 June 2025) — MF BRA Gabriel Moscardo (at Reims until 30 June 2025) — MF POR Renato Sanches (at Benfica until 30 June 2025) No. Pos. Nation Player — MF ESP Carlos Soler (at West Ham United until 30 June 2025) — FW ESP Marco Asensio (at Aston Villa until 30 June 2025) — FW MAR Ilyes Housni (at Le Havre until 30 June 2025) — FW FRA Randal Kolo Muani (at Juventus until 30 June 2025)

______________________________________________________________________

## Personnel

Personnel [ edit ] See also: List of Paris Saint-Germain FC managers and List of Paris Saint-Germain FC presidents As of 9 December 2023 . Management [ edit ] Nasser Al-Khelaifi Luis Enrique Position Name President Nasser Al-Khelaifi Secretary general Victoriano Melero Revenue officer Marc Armstrong Brand officer Fabien Allègre Corporate communications officer Michelle Gilbert First team communications officer Pascal Ferré Football Advisor Luís Campos Deputy director of football Olivier Gagne Technical staff [ edit ] Position Name First-team head coach Luis Enrique 1st assistant coach Rafel Pol 2nd assistant coach Aitor Unzué Psychologist Joaquín Valdés Fitness coach Pedro Gómez Assistant fitness coach Alberto Piernas Goalkeeping coach Borja Álvarez Assistant goalkeeping coach Jean-Luc Aubert ^ Cite error: The named reference Effectif was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ "Nasser Al-Khelaïfi, Président du Paris Saint-Germain" . PSG.FR . 19 June 2022. Archived from the original on 19 June 2022 . Retrieved 19 June 2022 . ^ a b c d e "Le Paris Saint-Germain renforce son équipe dirigeante et poursuit sa phase ambitieuse de développement et de transformation sur et en dehors des terrains" . PSG.FR . 13 January 2023. Archived from the original on 13 January 2023 . Retrieved 13 January 2023 . ^ "Luis Campos devient Conseiller Football du Paris Saint-Germain" . PSG.FR . 10 June 2022. Archived from the original on 10 June 2022 . Retrieved 10 June 2022 . ^ "Présentation du nouvel organigramme de l'équipe première du club" . PSG.FR . 16 July 2022. Archived from the original on 14 July 2023 . Retrieved 16 July 2022 . ^ "Luis Enrique nommé nouvel entraîneur du Paris Saint-Germain" . PSG.FR . 5 July 2023. Archived from the original on 18 July 2023 . Retrieved 6 July 2023 . ^ a b c d e f g "Le staff technique de Luis Enrique officialisé" . PSG.FR . 19 July 2023. Archived from the original on 20 July 2023 . Retrieved 20 July 2023 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Management

Management [ edit ] Nasser Al-Khelaifi Luis Enrique Position Name President Nasser Al-Khelaifi Secretary general Victoriano Melero Revenue officer Marc Armstrong Brand officer Fabien Allègre Corporate communications officer Michelle Gilbert First team communications officer Pascal Ferré Football Advisor Luís Campos Deputy director of football Olivier Gagne ^ "Nasser Al-Khelaïfi, Président du Paris Saint-Germain" . PSG.FR . 19 June 2022. Archived from the original on 19 June 2022 . Retrieved 19 June 2022 . ^ a b c d e "Le Paris Saint-Germain renforce son équipe dirigeante et poursuit sa phase ambitieuse de développement et de transformation sur et en dehors des terrains" . PSG.FR . 13 January 2023. Archived from the original on 13 January 2023 . Retrieved 13 January 2023 . ^ "Luis Campos devient Conseiller Football du Paris Saint-Germain" . PSG.FR . 10 June 2022. Archived from the original on 10 June 2022 . Retrieved 10 June 2022 . ^ "Présentation du nouvel organigramme de l'équipe première du club" . PSG.FR . 16 July 2022. Archived from the original on 14 July 2023 . Retrieved 16 July 2022 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Technical staff

Technical staff [ edit ] Position Name First-team head coach Luis Enrique 1st assistant coach Rafel Pol 2nd assistant coach Aitor Unzué Psychologist Joaquín Valdés Fitness coach Pedro Gómez Assistant fitness coach Alberto Piernas Goalkeeping coach Borja Álvarez Assistant goalkeeping coach Jean-Luc Aubert ^ "Luis Enrique nommé nouvel entraîneur du Paris Saint-Germain" . PSG.FR . 5 July 2023. Archived from the original on 18 July 2023 . Retrieved 6 July 2023 . ^ a b c d e f g "Le staff technique de Luis Enrique officialisé" . PSG.FR . 19 July 2023. Archived from the original on 20 July 2023 . Retrieved 20 July 2023 .

______________________________________________________________________

## References

References [ edit ]

______________________________________________________________________

## External links

External links [ edit ] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Paris Saint-Germain Football Club . Official website (in English, French, Spanish, Portuguese, Arabic, Chinese, Indonesian, and Japanese) Paris Saint-Germain Archived 22 March 2020 at the Wayback Machine – Ligue 1 Paris Saint-Germain – UEFA.com v t e Paris Saint-Germain Football Club Current season History Records and statistics International competitions Seasons Managers Presidents Ownership and finances Supporters Grounds Parc des Princes Campus PSG Camp des Loges Stade Georges Lefèvre Rivalries Le Classique List of matches Tournaments Tournoi de Paris Tournoi Indoor de Paris-Bercy Players 100+ appearances 25–99 appearances 1–24 appearances Active departments PSG Women Records and statistics Seasons Managers Presidents PSG Academy Association PSG Titi d'Or PSG Handball PSG Esports PSG Judo Former departments PSG Rugby League PSG Boxing Category Commons Links to related articles v t e Paris Saint-Germain FC seasons 1970–71 1971–72 1972–73 1973–74 1974–75 1975–76 1976–77 1977–78 1978–79 1979–80 1980–81 1981–82 1982–83 1983–84 1984–85 1985–86 1986–87 1987–88 1988–89 1989–90 1990–91 1991–92 1992–93 1993–94 1994–95 1995–96 1996–97 1997–98 1998–99 1999–2000 2000–01 2001–02 2002–03 2003–04 2004–05 2005–06 2006–07 2007–08 2008–09 2009–10 2010–11 2011–12 2012–13 2013–14 2014–15 2015–16 2016–17 2017–18 2018–19 2019–20 2020–21 2021–22 2022–23 2023–24 2024–25 v t e Paris Saint-Germain FC matches National Coupe de France finals 1982 1983 1985 1993 1995 1998 2003 2004 2006 2008 2010 2011 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2024 2025 Coupe de la Ligue finals 1995 1998 2000 2008 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2020 Trophée des Champions 1995 1998 2004 2006 2010 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 International UEFA Champions League Finals 2020 2025 Knockout Barcelona 6–1 Paris Saint-Germain (2017) UEFA Cup Winners' Cup finals 1996 1997 UEFA Super Cup 1996 2025 FIFA Intercontinental Cup 2025 v t e Paris Saint-Germain FC – managers Phelipon ( 1970 –72) Vicot ( 1972 –75) Fontaine ( 1975 –76) Vasović ( 1976 –77) Pantelić ( 1977 ) Larqué ( 1977 –78) Alonzo ( 1978 ) Vasović ( 1978 –79) Choquier ( 1979 ) Peyroche ( 1979 –83) Leduc ( 1983 –84) Peyroche ( 1984 –85) Coste ( 1985 ) Houllier ( 1985 –87) Mombaerts ( 1987 ) Houllier ( 1988 ) Ivić ( 1988 –90) Michel ( 1990 –91) Artur Jorge ( 1991 –94) Fernandez ( 1994 –96) Ricardo ( 1996 –98) Giresse ( 1998 ) Artur Jorge ( 1998 –99) Bergeroo ( 1999 –2000) Fernandez ( 2000 –03) Halilhodžić ( 2003 –05) Fournier ( 2005 ) Lacombe ( 2006 –07) Le Guen ( 2007 –09) Kombouaré ( 2009 –11) Ancelotti ( 2011 –13) Blanc ( 2013 –16) Emery ( 2016 –18) Tuchel ( 2018 –20) Pochettino ( 2021 –22) Galtier ( 2022 –23) Enrique ( 2023 –) v t e European Cup and UEFA Champions League winners European Cup era, 1955–1992 1950s 1955–56 : Real Madrid 1956–57 : Real Madrid 1957–58 : Real Madrid 1958–59 : Real Madrid 1959–60 : Real Madrid 1960s 1960–61 : Benfica 1961–62 : Benfica 1962–63 : Milan 1963–64 : Inter Milan 1964–65 : Inter Milan 1965–66 : Real Madrid 1966–67 : Celtic 1967–68 : Manchester United 1968–69 : Milan 1969–70 : Feyenoord 1970s 1970–71 : Ajax 1971–72 : Ajax 1972–73 : Ajax 1973–74 : Bayern Munich 1974–75 : Bayern Munich 1975–76 : Bayern Munich 1976–77 : Liverpool 1977–78 : Liverpool 1978–79 : Nottingham Forest 1979–80 : Nottingham Forest 1980s 1980–81 : Liverpool 1981–82 : Aston Villa 1982–83 : Hamburger SV 1983–84 : Liverpool 1984–85 : Juventus 1985–86 : Steaua București 1986–87 : Porto 1987–88 : PSV 1988–89 : Milan 1989–90 : Milan 1990s 1990–91 : Red Star Belgrade 1991–92 : Barcelona UEFA Champions League era, 1992–present 1990s 1992–93 : Marseille 1993–94 : Milan 1994–95 : Ajax 1995–96 : Juventus 1996–97 : Borussia Dortmund 1997–98 : Real Madrid 1998–99 : Manchester United 1999–2000 : Real Madrid 2000s 2000–01 : Bayern Munich 2001–02 : Real Madrid 2002–03 : Milan 2003–04 : Porto 2004–05 : Liverpool 2005–06 : Barcelona 2006–07 : Milan 2007–08 : Manchester United 2008–09 : Barcelona 2009–10 : Inter Milan 2010s 2010–11 : Barcelona 2011–12 : Chelsea 2012–13 : Bayern Munich 2013–14 : Real Madrid 2014–15 : Barcelona 2015–16 : Real Madrid 2016–17 : Real Madrid 2017–18 : Real Madrid 2018–19 : Liverpool 2019–20 : Bayern Munich 2020s 2020–21 : Chelsea 2021–22 : Real Madrid 2022–23 : Manchester City 2023–24 : Real Madrid 2024–25 : Paris Saint-Germain Finals Winning managers v t e UEFA Cup Winners' Cup winners 1960s 1960–61 : Fiorentina 1961–62 : Atlético Madrid 1962–63 : Tottenham Hotspur 1963–64 : Sporting CP 1964–65 : West Ham United 1965–66 : Borussia Dortmund 1966–67 : Bayern Munich 1967–68 : AC Milan 1968–69 : Slovan Bratislava 1969–70 : Manchester City 1970s 1970–71 : Chelsea 1971–72 : Rangers 1972–73 : AC Milan 1973–74 : 1. FC Magdeburg 1974–75 : Dynamo Kyiv 1975–76 : Anderlecht 1976–77 : Hamburger SV 1977–78 : Anderlecht 1978–79 : Barcelona 1979–80 : Valencia 1980s 1980–81 : Dinamo Tbilisi 1981–82 : Barcelona 1982–83 : Aberdeen 1983–84 : Juventus 1984–85 : Everton 1985–86 : Dynamo Kyiv 1986–87 : Ajax 1987–88 : Mechelen 1988–89 : Barcelona 1989–90 : Sampdoria 1990s 1990–91 : Manchester United 1991–92 : Werder Bremen 1992–93 : Parma 1993–94 : Arsenal 1994–95 : Zaragoza 1995–96 : Paris Saint-Germain 1996–97 : Barcelona 1997–98 : Chelsea 1998–99 : Lazio v t e UEFA Intertoto Cup winners 1995–2005 1995 : Bordeaux Strasbourg 1996 : Karlsruhe Silkeborg Guingamp 1997 : Auxerre Bastia Lyon 1998 : Bologna Valencia Werder 1999 : Juventus West Ham United Montpellier 2000 : Celta Stuttgart Udinese 2001 : Paris Saint-Germain Troyes Aston Villa 2002 : Málaga Stuttgart Fulham 2003 : Villarreal Perugia Schalke 04 2004 : Villarreal Lille Schalke 04 2005 : Hamburg Marseille Lens 2006–2008 2006 : Newcastle United 2007 : Hamburg 2008 : Braga Winning managers v t e Ligue 1 Clubs 2024–25 Angers Auxerre Brest Le Havre Lens Lille Lyon Marseille Monaco Montpellier Nantes Nice Paris Saint-Germain Reims Rennes Saint-Étienne Strasbourg Toulouse Former Aix-en-Provence Ajaccio Alès Amiens Angoulême Antibes Arles-Avignon (defunct) Avignon Bastia Béziers (defunct) Bordeaux Boulogne Caen Cannes Châteauroux Clermont Club Français (defunct) Colmar Dijon Évian Excelsior Roubaix (defunct) Fives (defunct) Gazélec Ajaccio Grenoble Gueugnon Guingamp Hyères Istres Laval Le Mans Limoges Foot (defunct) Lorient Martigues Metz Mulhouse AS Nancy FC Nancy (defunct) Nîmes Niort Olympique Lillois (defunct) Paris FC Paris-Charenton Racing Paris Racing Roubaix (defunct) Red Star Roubaix-Tourcoing (defunct) Rouen Sedan Sochaux Stade Français Sète Toulon Toulouse (1937) (defunct) Tours AS Troyes (defunct) ES Troyes AC Valenciennes Organisations Ligue de Football Professionnel Competition Teams winners Players foreign Winning managers Top scorers Stadiums Statistics and awards Records Hat-tricks Yearly awards Player of the Year Young Player of the Year Player of the Month Prix Marc-Vivien Foé Finances Richest clubs: Deloitte list Forbes' list Associated competitions Ligue 2 Coupe de France Coupe de la Ligue (defunct) Trophée des Champions UEFA Champions League UEFA Europa League UEFA Conference League Anglo-Franco-Scottish Friendship Cup (defunct) Category Authority control databases International ISNI VIAF National Germany United States France BnF data Czech Republic Norway Poland Other IdRef

______________________________________________________________________
