# WIKIPEDIA ARTICLE: FC_Porto

## TABLE OF CONTENTS

1 History
1.1 Early years (1893–1921)
1.2 First national titles and drought years (1921–1977)
1.3 International affirmation (1977–1988)
1.4 <i>Tri, Tetra, Penta</i> (1988–2001)
1.5 Mourinho's golden years (2001–2004)
1.6 Life after Mourinho (2004–2010)
1.7 Villas-Boas, Pereira and subsequent years (2010–2017)
1.8 Conceição era (2017–2024)
1.9 New club president, André Villas-Boas (2024 – present)
2 Crest and kit
3 Home stadiums
3.1 Museum
4 Rivalries
5 Records and statistics
5.1 Recent seasons
5.2 UEFA club coefficient ranking
6 Honours
7 Players
7.1 Current squad
7.2 Out on loan
8 Personnel
8.1 Technical staff
8.2 Management
9 Organisation
10 Media
11 Other sports
12 Footnotes
13 See also
14 References
15 Bibliography
16 External links

# FULL CONTENT

## History

History [ edit ] This section's factual accuracy is disputed . Relevant discussion may be found on the talk page . Please help to ensure that disputed statements are reliably sourced . ( May 2019 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) Early years (1893–1921) [ edit ] António Nicolau de Almeida, club founder The club was founded on 28 September 1893 as Foot-Ball Club do Porto by António Nicolau de Almeida, a local port wine merchant and avid sportsman, who became fascinated with football during his trips to England. Porto played its first matches with other Portuguese clubs, including one against Lisbon's Foot-Ball Club Lisbonense on 2 March 1894. This match had the patronage of King Carlos I and Queen Amélie of Orléans , who travelled to Porto to witness the event and present a trophy to the winners. Almeida's enthusiasm and involvement with the club waned due to family pressure, and by the turn of the century, Porto had entered a period of inactivity. In 1906, José Monteiro da Costa returned to Porto after finishing his studies in England. Like Almeida, thirteen years before, he was also captivated by the English game, and together with some associates, decided to reintroduce the practice of football in the city, outside of the British circles. On 2 August 1906, Porto was revived and Monteiro da Costa appointed its president. Although football was the driving force, the club also promoted other sports, including gymnastics, weightlifting and wrestling, athletics and swimming. Shortly after, Porto rented its first ground and recruited a French coach named Adolphe Cassaigne, who would stay in the club until 1925. On 15 December 1907, Porto played its first match against a foreign team, hosting Spain's Real Fortuna . In the following month, Porto returned the visit and played its first match abroad. Four years later, the club won the inaugural staging of the Taça José Monteiro da Costa , securing its first-ever major title. In 1912, Porto joined efforts with Leixões to establish the Porto Football Association , which began organising the regional championship in the following year. Porto finished the first season as runners-up, behind local rivals Boavista , but in the following season the club won its first championship. By the end of the 1920–21 season, Porto had been regional champions six times in seven years, and outright winners of the Taça José Monteiro da Costa, after claiming a third consecutive victory in 1916. First national titles and drought years (1921–1977) [ edit ] The 1921–22 season was marked by the creation of the first nationwide football competition – the Campeonato de Portugal . Organised by the national federation , this knockout tournament gathered the winners of the regional championships to determine the Portuguese champion. After clinching its fourth consecutive regional title, Porto defeated Sporting CP in the inaugural edition and became the first national champions. While a dominant regional force, the club faced stronger opposition in the national championship, winning it only three more times in a span of sixteen years (1925, 1932 and 1937). In 1933–34, Porto was denied participation in the Campeonato de Portugal by its football association for refusing to release players for a match between the Porto and Lisbon regional teams. In the following season, a second nationwide competition named "Campeonato da Primeira Liga" (English: Premier League Championship), or simply Primeira Liga , was provisionally established by the national federation to increase the number of matches per season and improve the competitiveness of Portuguese football. As the regional champion, Porto qualified for the first edition of the new round-robin competition, winning it with 10 victories in 14 matches. Due to the success of its format, the Primeira Liga was made an official championship competition for the 1938–39 season – its name changed to "Campeonato Nacional da Primeira Divisão" (English: First Division National Championship) or simply Primeira Divisão – and replaced the Campeonato de Portugal, which in turn was converted into the Taça de Portugal , the main domestic cup competition. Porto won the inaugural edition of the new league championship and successfully defended the title in the next season, despite almost failing to take part. The club failed to secure a third consecutive title, and after nearly missing again a place in the Primeira Divisão in 1941–42 , it would only return to a top-three finish in the 1946–47 season. In 1948, Porto defeated English champions Arsenal 3–2 in a friendly match. To commemorate this victory, the associates offered the club a massive trophy made of 250 kg (550 lb) of silver and wood – the Arsenal Cup. Having endured a 16-year title drought period, Porto returned to winning ways by taking the 1955–56 Primeira Divisão on head-to-head advantage over runners-up Benfica . Later that season, Porto beat Torreense to win its first Taça de Portugal and achieved its first double . As the Portuguese league winner, Porto made its debut in European competitions by qualifying for the 1956–57 European Cup . The club's first participation was short-lived, ending in the preliminary round with two defeats against Spanish champions Athletic Bilbao . A year later, Porto lifted its second Taça de Portugal by beating Benfica 1–0 in the final. In 1958, Béla Guttmann took charge as coach of Porto and helped them overhaul a five-point lead enjoyed by Benfica to win the Portuguese League title in 1959. The two clubs met in the season's final, but this time Benfica took the trophy and denied a second double for Porto that had won the 1958–59 Primeira Divisão three months before. Shortly after, the club entered another lacklustre period of its history, the highest point of which was a victory in the 1968 Taça de Portugal final. During this time, Porto had its worst-ever league classification, a ninth place in 1969–70, while its best league record in that period consisted of six runner-up finishes (four consecutive between 1961–62 and 1964–65). In European competitions, the club participated for the first time in the Inter-Cities Fairs Cup (and its successor, the UEFA Cup ) and in the Cup Winners' Cup , without getting past the third round. One of the club's most tragic moments occurred on 16 December 1973, when during a league match against Vitória de Setúbal , the 26-year-old captain Pavão fell unconscious on the pitch and died later at the hospital. The following month, Porto presented Peruvian international Teófilo Cubillas , who became one of the club's most successful players, scoring 65 goals in 108 games. International affirmation (1977–1988) [ edit ] Rabah Madjer was a key figure in Porto's 1987 European Cup Final victory. The return of José Maria Pedroto – a former Porto player and head coach in the late 1960s – in the 1976–77 season started a new chapter in the club's history. Responsible for the previous cup triumph in 1968, Pedroto guided Porto to its fourth title in the competition. In the following season, he put an end to Porto's league title drought, winning the championship 19 years after having played in the team that took the last title. Internationally, Porto reached the quarter-finals of the 1977–78 Cup Winners' Cup , beating Manchester United along the way, but suffered its heaviest defeat (6–1) against AEK Athens in the subsequent season's European Cup . A poor run of performances in the latter part of the season – resulting in the loss of the league and cup titles – sparked a conflict between the technical staff and president Américo de Sá, which ended with the resignation of Pedroto and his replacement by Hermann Stessl . In December 1981, Porto overcame Benfica to win the inaugural staging of the Portuguese Super Cup, the Supertaça Cândido de Oliveira . Pedroto returned in April 1982 by the hand of the club's newly elected president Jorge Nuno Pinto da Costa , who had resigned as director of football, two years before, in solidarity with the coach. The previous month, Porto fell again in the Cup Winners' Cup quarter-finals against one of the eventual finalists, but needed only two years to finally reach the competition's final . On 16 May 1984, Porto played its first major European final in Basel's St. Jakob Stadium , losing 2–1 to Michel Platini 's Juventus . Already without Pedroto, who stepped down due to illness, Porto won that season's Taça and Supertaça but lost the championship to Benfica. Under the steering of Pedroto's apprentice, Artur Jorge , the following season brought the Primeira Divisão title back to the club and crowned homegrown striker Fernando Gomes as Europe's top goalscorer for the second time, after first taking the award in 1983. Porto retained the league title in 1986, securing an entry to the 1986–87 European Cup . In the first game, the club recorded its biggest win in European competitions: 9–0 against Maltese side Rabat Ajax . Vítkovice of Czechoslovakia, Brøndby of Denmark, and Dynamo Kyiv of the Soviet Union were successively eliminated as Porto advanced to its first European Cup final, against Bayern Munich . Trailing the Germans 1–0 until the 79th minute, Porto scored twice in two minutes – the first goal through a famous backheel from former Algerian international Rabah Madjer , who assisted Juary for the second – to secure a surprising win and the European Cup title. The following season, under new coach Tomislav Ivic , the club completed a treble of international trophies by beating Ajax for the 1987 European Super Cup and Uruguay's Peñarol for the 1987 Intercontinental Cup . The 1987–88 season was one of the most successful for the club, who also won the Taça de Portugal and an expanded 20-team Primeira Divisão with a record number of goals scored (88) and distance in points to the runners-up (15). Tri, Tetra, Penta (1988–2001) [ edit ] In contrast to the previous season, Porto failed to win a trophy in 1988–89, with many of its players struck down with injuries, such as Madjer and Gomes. Fifteen years after his first-team debut, Gomes made his last season for Porto, where he became the all-time top goalscorer with 352 goals in 455 matches. The club brought back Artur Jorge, who recovered the Primeira Divisão title in the following season and added the Taça and Supertaça trophies in 1991. His successor, Brazilian Carlos Alberto Silva , won back-to-back league titles in two seasons and qualified Porto for the first UEFA Champions League . Bobby Robson won the first two of Porto's record five consecutive league titles. Midway through the 1993–94 season, Porto hired former England manager Bobby Robson , who had been sacked by Sporting CP. The club closed the gap to league winners Benfica, reached the 1993–94 UEFA Champions League semi-finals, and ended the season with a victory over Sporting CP in the Taça de Portugal final . In Robson's first full season, Porto claimed the 1994–95 Primeira Divisão title with a win at Sporting CP's ground and played Benfica four times to secure both the 1993 and 1994 stagings of the Supertaça. The beginning of the season had been clouded by the death of 26-year-old midfielder Rui Filipe , who had scored the club's first league goal. Robson's increasing health problems barred him from leading Porto in the first months of the 1995–96 season, but he returned in time to revalidate the league title. Striker Domingos Paciência became the club's top goalscorer for the second consecutive time and won that season's Bola de Prata , the last win by a Portuguese player. To fill the void left by the departure of Robson for Barcelona , Porto hired former club captain and Portugal national team manager António Oliveira . Under his command, Porto made history by winning a third consecutive league title (the Tri ) for the first time, leaving the runners-up at a distance of 13 points. The club's eighth Supertaça win over Benfica was achieved with a solid performance at the Estádio da Luz that resulted in a 5–0 scoreline. The arrival of Brazilian players Artur and Mário Jardel proved highly productive in the 1996–97 UEFA Champions League , as their goals helped Porto beat Milan in Italy and win its group without defeats. In addition, Jardel would win the first of four consecutive Bola de Prata awards while at Porto. In Oliveira's second and last season at the club, Porto won the Primeira Divisão for the fourth straight season (the Tetra ), matching Sporting CP's achievement in the early 1950s, and secured its third double after beating Braga in the 1998 Taça de Portugal Final . For the 1998–99 season, Porto tasked Portuguese coach Fernando Santos with winning the club's fifth successive Primeira Divisão title (the Penta ) – a Portuguese football record. He accomplished this feat, becoming thereafter known as the " Penta engineer" (a pun to his academic degree), and saw Jardel's 36 goals win him the European Golden Shoe. Porto lost the chance to win its sixth straight league title, after finishing four points behind 1999–2000 Primeira Liga champions Sporting, but overcame them to lift its tenth Taça de Portugal trophy . Despite winning the Portuguese cup for the second time in two years, continued failure to retake the league title led to the resignation of Santos at the end of the 2000–01 season. Mourinho's golden years (2001–2004) [ edit ] José Mourinho led Porto to consecutive UEFA Cup and UEFA Champions League titles. The appointment of former club player and assistant coach Octávio Machado to head Porto back to the league title appeared to pay off as the team began the season with a Supertaça win against the 2000–01 Primeira Liga winners, Boavista. However, this would be the only major achievement in a lacklustre season that would culminate with a third place in the league classification – the lowest in 20 years. The elimination from the 2001–02 Taça de Portugal , four days after losing away for the Primeira Liga, precipitated the sacking of Machado after 36 matches in charge. Two days later, Porto signed União de Leiria 's coach, José Mourinho , who had previously worked for the club alongside Robson. In his presentation, Mourinho promptly showcased his personality by stating unequivocally that the club would win next season's league title. He kept true to his promise and delivered one of the club's most successful seasons. Fielding the likes of Deco , Ricardo Carvalho , Maniche , and less known players hired from other Portuguese clubs, such as Paulo Ferreira , Pedro Emanuel , Nuno Valente and Derlei , Porto won the 2002–03 Primeira Liga with relative comfort, finishing 11 points ahead of second-placed Benfica. The club also won the UEFA Cup , defeating Celtic in a dramatic extra-time final, to win its second major European title. Mourinho then secured an unprecedented treble for Porto by winning the Taça de Portugal final against his previous club. The 2003–04 season began with another 1–0 win over União de Leiria , which gave the club its 13th Supertaça. Weeks later, Porto failed to repeat this success in the 2003 UEFA Super Cup , losing 1–0 to Milan. The departure of striker Hélder Postiga was compensated by the signing of South Africa's Benni McCarthy , whose 20 league goals helped Porto in its league title defense and crowned him the competition's top scorer. Porto entered the 2003–04 UEFA Champions League directly into the group stage. Porto finished second in its group, losing only once to Real Madrid , and advanced to the round-of-16 where they met Manchester United. After narrowly winning at home (2–1), Porto was on the verge of elimination, being behind by 1–0 till the last minute of official playtime at the second leg at Old Trafford . However, Porto scored the equalizer in the 90th minute of the second leg to draw 1–1 and to advance to the quarter-finals with a 3–2 aggregate win. The team then overcame Lyon and Deportivo La Coruña to reach the Champions League final . Porto defeated Monaco 3–0 to lift the club's second European Champion Clubs' Cup . A 2–1 loss to Benfica in the Taça de Portugal final , held 10 days before, prevented another treble-winning season. Life after Mourinho (2004–2010) [ edit ] The successful European performances of Mourinho's Porto enhanced the reputations of the coach and players like Carvalho, Ferreira and Deco, all of whom left the club in the aftermath of the Champions League victory. The following season was an atypical one, as the club had three coaches: Luigi Delneri , Víctor Fernández and José Couceiro . Under Férnandez, Porto won the 2004 Supertaça Cândido de Oliveira and the 2004 Intercontinental Cup , but lost the 2004 UEFA Super Cup to Valencia and was eliminated prematurely in the 2004–05 Taça de Portugal . Recording only 17 wins in 34 matches, Porto lost the Primeira Liga title to Benfica by three points. During this period, Porto was directly involved in the corruption scandal Apito Dourado . In 2005–06, Dutch coach Co Adriaanse was picked to reorganise the team and return the club to the top of Portuguese football. His tactical discipline and the contribution of new signings Lucho González and Lisandro López led the club to not only retake the Primeira Liga title but also secure its fifth domestic double, after beating holders Vitória de Setúbal in the Taça de Portugal final . Adriaanse's domestic success did not transfer to the Champions League , as Porto finished in the bottom of its group. The club began the 2006–07 season with a new coach, Jesualdo Ferreira , signed from neighbours Boavista. Before Ferreira assumed his role, Porto won the season-opening Supertaça , with former club player Rui Barros acting as interim coach. An experienced head coach, Ferreira had never achieved major club level success, but in his first season in Porto he became national champion for the first time. The 2006–07 Primeira Liga title was only secured in a frantic final day, as Porto finished one point above Sporting and two above Benfica. The following season, the club achieved the Tri for the second time in its history – with López clinching the top goalscorer award – but lost the Taça and Supertaça finals to Sporting CP. In May 2008, as result of Apito Dourado, a legal investigation on match fixing in Portuguese football, Porto was fined €150,000 and punished with the loss of six points, while Pinto da Costa was suspended for two years. Porto did not appeal the decision. Having claimed a sixth league and cup double in the 2008–09 season, Porto was on course to emulate the Penta of the late 1990s, but the series was broken by Benfica in the following season . Although Ferreira won his first Supertaça and defended the Taça de Portugal title , the team's failure to claim a fifth consecutive league – finishing third, outside the Champions League-qualifying places – and a 3–0 defeat against Benfica in the final of the Taça da Liga contributed to his resignation at the end of the season. A home win against Benfica prevented the rivals from celebrating the league title at the Estádio do Dragão . Under Ferreira's steering, Porto always qualified for the Champions League knockout stage, reaching the quarter-finals in 2008–09 , where it was eliminated by holders Manchester United. Villas-Boas, Pereira and subsequent years (2010–2017) [ edit ] André Villas-Boas won four trophies in one season with Porto, including the UEFA Europa League. The arrival of Mourinho's former assistant André Villas-Boas , in the spring of 2010, set the stage for a highly successful 2010–11 season, which began with a 2–0 victory over Benfica for the Supertaça . Spearheaded by João Moutinho , Silvestre Varela , Falcao and Hulk (the Bola de Prata winner), Porto performed strongly in the Primeira Liga and assured its 25th title with five matches to play, after beating Benfica in its stadium. In addition, the club broke a number of records: biggest distance between champions and runners-up (21 points), the most consecutive league wins (16), and the highest percentage of points in a 30-game season (93.33%), dropping only six points and finishing the league without defeats, for the first time in its history. Eight years after the 2003 triumph, Porto returned to the UEFA Cup (renamed UEFA Europa League) and reached the final in Dublin's Aviva Stadium . In an all-Portuguese affair, Porto beat Braga with a goal from the competition's top goalscorer Falcao and lifted the trophy for the second time, as Villas-Boas became the youngest UEFA competition-winning coach. Four days later, Porto won its third consecutive Taça de Portugal with a convincing 6–2 scoreline, securing their fourth trophy of the season. As Villas-Boas left for Chelsea, Porto recruited the services of his assistant, Vítor Pereira . For the third straight year, the club began the season with another Supertaça title, which was followed by a 2–0 loss to Barcelona for the 2011 UEFA Super Cup . Although lacking the goalscoring prolificacy of Falcao (sold to Atlético Madrid ), Porto was able to revalidate the Primeira Liga title, but was eliminated prematurely from the Taça and Champions League competitions. Transferred to the Europa League , Porto failed to defend its title after being knocked out by Manchester City. In the following season, the club went a stage further in both domestic cup competitions and in the Champions League, where it fell to Málaga in the last-16 round . In the 2012–13 Primeira Liga , Porto reduced the distance to leaders Benfica to two points, before hosting them in the penultimate matchday. In a dramatic turn of events, Porto won with a goal in stoppage time and moved to the top of the league table. An away victory in the last game confirmed the Tri and Porto's 27th league title – the second without defeats. Porto entered the 2013–14 season with a new head coach – Paulo Fonseca , signed from 2012 to 2013 Primeira Liga third-placed Paços de Ferreira – but continued the trend of the previous four seasons by winning the Supertaça . This title would be the highlight of the season, as the club underperformed in every other competition it was involved. In the league, Porto led with five points over its pursuers, but a series of compromising results pushed the club down to third place, resulting in the sacking of Fonseca. Failing to overcome the Champions League group stage , Porto reached the Europa League quarter-finals , where they lost 4–1 to the eventual winners Sevilla . In the following weeks, two semi-final losses against Benfica closed the doors to the finals of the Taça de Portugal and Taça da Liga , the latter at home on penalties. Porto started the 2014–15 season with their biggest budget ever, hiring Spanish head coach Julen Lopetegui . Despite the signing of many new players, they failed to win any silverware, contributing to the biggest hiatus during Pinto da Costa's presidency. They also equalized, in terms of goals conceded, their biggest defeat in European competitions (6–1 against AEK Athens ) and suffered their biggest defeat in the UEFA Champions League (6–1 against Bayern Munich , after the 5–0 loss against Arsenal in 2010). Porto continued their losing trend in the 2015–16 season , making it the second consecutive trophyless season, with the contribution of José Peseiro , who had replaced Julen Lopetegui in January 2016. After the season was over, Peseiro was replaced by Nuno Espírito Santo . Conceição era (2017–2024) [ edit ] Former Porto player Sérgio Conceição has won eight honours as the club's manager, including three league titles In the 2017–18 season , after almost five years without winning any trophy, Porto won their 28th league title with the contribution of coach Sérgio Conceição , a former player of the club. The following year, in the 2018–19 UEFA Champions League , Porto managed to reach the quarter-finals of the competition, but were defeated by 6–1 on aggregate against the eventual winners Liverpool . In the 2019–20 season , Porto managed to recapture the league title, winning it for the 29th time and added for the first time in eleven years the Portuguese cup along with it. However, despite their national success, FC Porto did not reach the group phase of the Champions League and did poorly in their Europa League campaign. In the 2020–21 UEFA Champions League round of 16, Porto won on away goals rule (4–4 on aggregate) against Juventus , to reach the quarter-finals. The season would, however, end with only one national trophy, the Supertaça . After having lost the national title to Sporting in the previous season, Porto's 2021–22 season saw them reach various successes at domestic level: with Conceição at the helm for the 5th season in a row, the team recaptured the Primeira Liga , achieving a record 91 points. During the season, the Dragons also set a new record for longest unbeaten run in the league, with 58 matches, a sequence that had been started during the first half of the 2020–21 edition. One week after the league's conclusion, they added the domestic cup , thus securing the second double in Conceição's reign. On 28 January 2023, still under Conceição, and on their fifth try, Porto won their first ever Taça da Liga title, defeating Sporting CP in the final , thus winning every national trophy available. On 17 December 2023, the team qualified (along with Benfica) to the 2025 FIFA Club World Cup for the first time, as they were the highest-ranked Portuguese club in the UEFA 4-year ranking. At the end of the 2023–2024 season, after having won the Taça de Portugal and coached the team for seven years, Conceição was let go by the newly elected president of FC Porto, Andre Villas-Boas. New club president, André Villas-Boas (2024 – present) [ edit ] On 27 April 2024, André Villas-Boas, who had coached Porto during the 2010–2011 season, was elected the 32º president of Futebol Clube do Porto, succeeding Jorge Nuno Pinto da Costa. He won 80% of the election, with 21,489 out of 26,876 votes. Villas-Boas was keen on making immediate changes at the club, starting with selecting a new coach, Vitor Bruno , who had previously served as the assistant coach under Sérgio Conceição at Porto. Villas-Boas introduced the first women's football team to represent FC Porto, incentivized the promotion of several B team and U-19 players to the main team, and the creation of initiatives to bring the fans closer to the club. ^ a b c Tovar 2011 , pp. 9–10. ^ a b c "FC Porto" . UEFA . Retrieved 28 June 2014 . ^ "Clubs – FC Porto" . FIFA. Archived from the original on 30 November 2013 . Retrieved 28 June 2014 . ^ Simões, António; Serpa, Homero; do Carmo Francisco, José (1995). Glória e Vida de Três Gigantes (in Portuguese). Vol. 1. A Bola . Archived from the original on 4 November 2005. ^ Martins, Paulo (15 September 2004). "Taça D. Carlos I 1894" . RSSSF . Retrieved 21 June 2014 . ^ Tovar 2011 , p. 11. ^ Pereira da Silva, Joaquim (1 March 1926). "O Tripeiro" (in Portuguese). No. 5. p. 113. ^ Bandeira 2012 , pp. 40, 81. ^ Bandeira 2012 , p. 164. ^ Bandeira 2012 , p. 73. ^ a b Martins, Paulo; Nunes, João (26 June 2004). "Taça José Monteiro da Costa" . RSSSF . Retrieved 21 June 2014 . ^ Bandeira 2012 , p. 70. ^ Tovar 2011 , p. 37. ^ a b Martins, Paulo; Nunes, João (26 June 2004). "Campeonato do Porto (Oporto Championship)" . RSSSF . Retrieved 21 June 2014 . ^ a b Tovar 2011 , pp. 49–50. ^ a b "História" . FPF.pt (in Portuguese). Portuguese Football Federation . Archived from the original on 15 July 2014 . Retrieved 22 June 2014 . ^ a b c Claro, Paulo (15 May 2004). "Campeonato de Portugal 1921–1938" . RSSSF . Retrieved 22 June 2014 . ^ Tovar 2011 , p. 89. ^ Tovar 2011 , p. 92. ^ Teixeira, Jorge Miguel (11 August 1999). "Portugal 1934–35" . RSSSF . Retrieved 23 June 2014 . ^ Tovar 2011 , p. 96. ^ Tovar 2011 , p. 121. ^ Stadium Newspaper, 10 January 1940 ^ Tovar 2011 , p. 136. ^ Bandeira 2012 , p. 22. ^ Tovar 2011 , pp. 219–222. ^ a b c d e f g h Claro, Paulo (22 May 2014). "Portugal – List of Cup Winners" . RSSSF . Retrieved 5 July 2014 . ^ Tovar 2011 , p. 224. ^ "1956–57 UEFA Champions League" . UEFA. Archived from the original on 24 September 2011 . Retrieved 24 June 2014 . ^ "Revolutionary coach who survived Nazi labour camp to become world's first superstar manager" . Sportal – World Sports News . 16 July 2023. ^ Tovar 2011 , p. 236. ^ Tovar 2011 , p. 304. ^ Claro, Paulo (15 May 2014). "Portugal – List of champions" . RSSSF . Retrieved 25 June 2014 . ^ "FC Porto – History" . UEFA. Archived from the original on 23 February 2013 . Retrieved 25 June 2014 . ^ Tovar 2011 , p. 330. ^ Marques Simões, Rui (13 September 2009). "FC Porto–Setúbal à jornada 13: é dia de lembrar Pavão" [FC Porto–Setúbal on matchday 13: a day to remember Pavão]. dn.pt (in Portuguese). Diário de Notícias . Archived from the original on 27 April 2014 . Retrieved 26 June 2014 . ^ Tovar 2011 , p. 655. ^ Tovar 2011 , p. 349. ^ Tovar 2011 , p. 355. ^ "1977/78: Two out of three for Anderlecht" . UEFA. Archived from the original on 3 May 2010 . Retrieved 26 June 2014 . ^ Tovar 2011 , pp. 368, 377. ^ a b c d e f g h Claro, Paulo (15 August 2013). "Portugal – List of Super Cup winners" . RSSSF . Retrieved 26 June 2014 . ^ Tovar 2011 , p. 391. ^ "1981/82: Home sweet home for Barcelona" . UEFA. Archived from the original on 3 May 2010 . Retrieved 26 June 2014 . ^ "1983/84: Star-studded Juventus make their mark" . UEFA. Archived from the original on 3 May 2010 . Retrieved 26 June 2014 . ^ Tovar 2011 , p. 398. ^ Tovar 2011 , pp. 391, 406. ^ a b "Golden Shoe" . European Sports Media . Archived from the original on 4 September 2019 . Retrieved 27 June 2014 . ^ "Classic Players – Madjer the magnificent" . FIFA. Archived from the original on 12 May 2014 . Retrieved 27 June 2014 . ^ "1986/87: Madjer inspires Porto triumph" . UEFA. Archived from the original on 6 December 2011 . Retrieved 27 June 2014 . ^ "1987: Sousa makes sure for Porto" . UEFA. Archived from the original on 27 May 2012 . Retrieved 27 June 2014 . ^ "Madjer lobs Porto to glory in the snow" . FIFA. 13 December 2012. Archived from the original on 25 December 2013 . Retrieved 27 June 2014 . ^ Tovar 2011 , p. 428. ^ Tovar 2011 , p. 436. ^ Bandeira 2012 , pp. 21, 176. ^ Tovar 2011 , pp. 444, 453. ^ Tovar 2011 , pp. 462, 470. ^ "UEFA Champions League 1992/93" . UEFA. Archived from the original on 5 January 2013 . Retrieved 29 June 2014 . ^ Tovar 2011 , p. 478. ^ a b Tovar 2011 , p. 486. ^ Tovar 2011 , pp. 494, 501–502. ^ a b Tovar 2011 , pp. 503, 510. ^ "UEFA Champions League 1996/97 – History – Standings" . UEFA. Archived from the original on 14 September 2012 . Retrieved 29 June 2014 . ^ Tovar 2011 , p. 511. ^ "Fernando Santos deixa selecção da Grécia após o Mundial do Brasil" [Fernando Santos selected from Greece after the World Cup in Brazil]. Público (in Portuguese). 27 February 2014 . Retrieved 29 June 2014 . ^ Tovar 2011 , p. 519. ^ Tovar 2011 , p. 527. ^ Tovar 2011 , p. 539. ^ a b Tovar 2011 , pp. 548–556. ^ "Mourinho ready for Porto challenge" . UEFA. 23 January 2002 . Retrieved 30 June 2014 . ^ Tovar 2011 , p. 557. ^ "2002/03: Mourinho makes his mark" . UEFA. 1 June 2003. Archived from the original on 10 November 2011 . Retrieved 1 July 2014 . ^ "2003: Shevchenko steals the show" . UEFA. Archived from the original on 4 July 2010 . Retrieved 2 July 2014 . ^ Tovar 2011 , p. 561. ^ "UEFA Champions League 2003/04 – History" . UEFA. Archived from the original on 24 September 2011 . Retrieved 2 July 2014 . ^ "Mourinho checks in at Chelsea" . UEFA. 3 June 2004 . Retrieved 2 July 2014 . ^ Burt, Jason (28 July 2004). "Chelsea sign Carvalho from Porto in £20m deal" . The Independent . Archived from the original on 8 July 2013 . Retrieved 2 July 2014 . ^ "Chelsea to sign Ferreira" . BBC Sport . 23 June 2004 . Retrieved 2 July 2014 . ^ "Chelsea sign Barca playmaker Deco" . BBC Sport . 30 June 2008 . Retrieved 2 July 2014 . ^ "Porto dump coach Del Neri" . BBC Sport . 7 August 2004 . Retrieved 3 July 2014 . ^ Tovar 2011 , pp. 575–582. ^ Gonçalves, Eduardo; Campbell, Denis (26 December 2004). "Portuguese football champions shaken by corruption charges" . The Guardian . Retrieved 29 September 2015 . ^ Tovar 2011 , p. 583. ^ "UEFA Champions League 2005/06 – History – Standings" . UEFA. Archived from the original on 23 December 2011 . Retrieved 2 July 2014 . ^ Tovar 2011 , p. 591. ^ "Jesualdo Ferreira" . UEFA. 1 June 2010. Archived from the original on 7 July 2014 . Retrieved 3 July 2014 . ^ Tovar 2011 , p. 597. ^ Tovar 2011 , p. 598. ^ "Apito Final – FC Porto perde seis pontos, Pinto da Costa suspenso por dois anos, Boavista despromovido" [Final Whistle – FC Porto lose six points, Pinto da Costa suspended for two years, Boavista relegated]. SAPO Notícias (in Portuguese). SAPO. 9 May 2008. Archived from the original on 16 September 2017 . Retrieved 4 July 2014 . ^ "Comunicado" [Announcement] (PDF) . CMVM (in Portuguese). F.C. Porto. 9 May 2009. ^ Tovar 2011 , p. 606. ^ a b Tovar 2011 , pp. 615–623. ^ "UEFA Champions League 2008/09 – History" . UEFA. Archived from the original on 24 September 2011 . Retrieved 5 July 2014 . ^ a b Tovar 2011 , p. 627. ^ Assunção, Manuel (14 May 2011). "FC Porto invicto confirmou na Madeira o seu lugar na história do campeonato" [Undefeated FC Porto confirmed in Madeira its place in Portuguese league history]. Público (in Portuguese) . Retrieved 6 July 2014 . ^ Fifield, Dominic (18 May 2011). "Falcao strikes to bring Europa League glory to Porto" . The Guardian . Retrieved 6 July 2014 . ^ Atkin, John (22 June 2011). "The rise of new Chelsea manager Villas-Boas" . UEFA . Retrieved 6 July 2014 . ^ "2011: Number four for Barcelona" . UEFA. Archived from the original on 30 August 2012 . Retrieved 6 July 2014 . ^ "Classificação Liga ZON Sagres 2011–2012" (in Portuguese). LPFP . Retrieved 6 July 2014 . ^ Hart, Simon (22 February 2012). "Slick City end Porto's UEFA Europa League defence" . UEFA . Retrieved 6 July 2014 . ^ Smith, Jonathan (13 March 2013). "Malaga 2–0 FC Porto (agg 2–1)" . BBC Sport . Retrieved 6 July 2014 . ^ "Primeira Liga: Porto stun Benfica with late goal to go top of table" . BBC Sport . 11 May 2013 . Retrieved 6 July 2014 . ^ Sousa, Hugo Daniel (19 May 2013). "FC Porto é o terceiro campeão sem derrotas" . Público (in Portuguese) . Retrieved 6 July 2014 . ^ "Porto appoint Fonseca" . FIFA. 10 June 2013. Archived from the original on 16 July 2014 . Retrieved 6 July 2014 . ^ "Porto sack coach Paulo Fonseca after nine months in charge" . BBC Sport . 5 March 2014 . Retrieved 6 July 2014 . ^ Aitken, Nick (10 April 2014). "Sevilla surge past Porto and into semis" . UEFA . Retrieved 6 July 2014 . ^ Assunção, Manuel (27 April 2014). "Benfica aguentou com menos um e teve prémio nos penáltis" . Público (in Portuguese) . Retrieved 6 July 2014 . ^ "O maior teste do "formador" Lopetegui" [The biggest test of "former" Lopetegui] (in Portuguese). Diário de Notícias . 26 April 2015. Archived from the original on 20 May 2015 . Retrieved 19 May 2015 . ^ "O maior jejum da era Pinto da Costa" [The biggest fasting in Pinto da Costa era]. Record (in Portuguese). 17 May 2015. Archived from the original on 13 July 2015 . Retrieved 17 July 2015 . ^ "FC Porto iguala a pior derrota europeia da sua história" [FC Porto equals worst European defeat in its history] (in Portuguese). SAPO. 21 April 2015. Archived from the original on 20 May 2015 . Retrieved 19 May 2015 . ^ "Síntese: FC Porto sofre a sua derrota mais pesada na Champions e é afastado" [Porto suffer their biggest defeat in the Champions League and are eliminated] (in Portuguese). futebol365. 30 July 2015 . Retrieved 30 July 2015 . ^ Bernardino, Augusto (6 May 2018). "E o "penta" vai para Sérgio Conceição" [And the "penta" goes to Sérgio Conceição]. Público (in Portuguese) . Retrieved 28 May 2018 . ^ "Porto 1–4 Liverpool" . UEFA. 17 April 2019. ^ "Juventus 3–2 FC Porto" . BBC Sport. 9 March 2021. ^ "FC Porto vence Taça da Liga pela primeira vez" . 28 January 2023. ^ "Adeus amargo e regado a traição. Conceição deixa FC Porto com polémica" . Notícias ao Minuto (in Portuguese). 4 June 2024 . Retrieved 20 August 2024 . ^ "Villas-Boas é o novo presidente do FC Porto após vitória esmagadora com 80%: os resultados das eleições" . Record.pt (in European Portuguese) . Retrieved 20 August 2024 . ^ a b "Equipa sénior feminina do FC Porto vai começar na III Divisão" . O Jogo (in Portuguese). 21 May 2024 . Retrieved 20 August 2024 . ^ "FC Porto - Notícias - Lucky Fan: quando o FC Porto bate à porta" . fcporto.pt . 7 June 2024 . Retrieved 20 August 2024 . Cite error: There are <ref group=lower-alpha> tags or {{efn}} templates on this page, but the references will not show without a {{reflist|group=lower-alpha}} template or {{notelist}} template (see the help page ).

______________________________________________________________________

### Early years (1893–1921)

Early years (1893–1921) [ edit ] António Nicolau de Almeida, club founder The club was founded on 28 September 1893 as Foot-Ball Club do Porto by António Nicolau de Almeida, a local port wine merchant and avid sportsman, who became fascinated with football during his trips to England. Porto played its first matches with other Portuguese clubs, including one against Lisbon's Foot-Ball Club Lisbonense on 2 March 1894. This match had the patronage of King Carlos I and Queen Amélie of Orléans , who travelled to Porto to witness the event and present a trophy to the winners. Almeida's enthusiasm and involvement with the club waned due to family pressure, and by the turn of the century, Porto had entered a period of inactivity. In 1906, José Monteiro da Costa returned to Porto after finishing his studies in England. Like Almeida, thirteen years before, he was also captivated by the English game, and together with some associates, decided to reintroduce the practice of football in the city, outside of the British circles. On 2 August 1906, Porto was revived and Monteiro da Costa appointed its president. Although football was the driving force, the club also promoted other sports, including gymnastics, weightlifting and wrestling, athletics and swimming. Shortly after, Porto rented its first ground and recruited a French coach named Adolphe Cassaigne, who would stay in the club until 1925. On 15 December 1907, Porto played its first match against a foreign team, hosting Spain's Real Fortuna . In the following month, Porto returned the visit and played its first match abroad. Four years later, the club won the inaugural staging of the Taça José Monteiro da Costa , securing its first-ever major title. In 1912, Porto joined efforts with Leixões to establish the Porto Football Association , which began organising the regional championship in the following year. Porto finished the first season as runners-up, behind local rivals Boavista , but in the following season the club won its first championship. By the end of the 1920–21 season, Porto had been regional champions six times in seven years, and outright winners of the Taça José Monteiro da Costa, after claiming a third consecutive victory in 1916. ^ a b c Tovar 2011 , pp. 9–10. ^ "FC Porto" . UEFA . Retrieved 28 June 2014 . ^ "Clubs – FC Porto" . FIFA. Archived from the original on 30 November 2013 . Retrieved 28 June 2014 . ^ Simões, António; Serpa, Homero; do Carmo Francisco, José (1995). Glória e Vida de Três Gigantes (in Portuguese). Vol. 1. A Bola . Archived from the original on 4 November 2005. ^ Martins, Paulo (15 September 2004). "Taça D. Carlos I 1894" . RSSSF . Retrieved 21 June 2014 . ^ Tovar 2011 , p. 11. ^ Pereira da Silva, Joaquim (1 March 1926). "O Tripeiro" (in Portuguese). No. 5. p. 113. ^ Bandeira 2012 , pp. 40, 81. ^ Bandeira 2012 , p. 164. ^ Bandeira 2012 , p. 73. ^ a b Martins, Paulo; Nunes, João (26 June 2004). "Taça José Monteiro da Costa" . RSSSF . Retrieved 21 June 2014 . ^ Bandeira 2012 , p. 70. ^ Tovar 2011 , p. 37. ^ Martins, Paulo; Nunes, João (26 June 2004). "Campeonato do Porto (Oporto Championship)" . RSSSF . Retrieved 21 June 2014 .

______________________________________________________________________

### First national titles and drought years (1921–1977)

First national titles and drought years (1921–1977) [ edit ] The 1921–22 season was marked by the creation of the first nationwide football competition – the Campeonato de Portugal . Organised by the national federation , this knockout tournament gathered the winners of the regional championships to determine the Portuguese champion. After clinching its fourth consecutive regional title, Porto defeated Sporting CP in the inaugural edition and became the first national champions. While a dominant regional force, the club faced stronger opposition in the national championship, winning it only three more times in a span of sixteen years (1925, 1932 and 1937). In 1933–34, Porto was denied participation in the Campeonato de Portugal by its football association for refusing to release players for a match between the Porto and Lisbon regional teams. In the following season, a second nationwide competition named "Campeonato da Primeira Liga" (English: Premier League Championship), or simply Primeira Liga , was provisionally established by the national federation to increase the number of matches per season and improve the competitiveness of Portuguese football. As the regional champion, Porto qualified for the first edition of the new round-robin competition, winning it with 10 victories in 14 matches. Due to the success of its format, the Primeira Liga was made an official championship competition for the 1938–39 season – its name changed to "Campeonato Nacional da Primeira Divisão" (English: First Division National Championship) or simply Primeira Divisão – and replaced the Campeonato de Portugal, which in turn was converted into the Taça de Portugal , the main domestic cup competition. Porto won the inaugural edition of the new league championship and successfully defended the title in the next season, despite almost failing to take part. The club failed to secure a third consecutive title, and after nearly missing again a place in the Primeira Divisão in 1941–42 , it would only return to a top-three finish in the 1946–47 season. In 1948, Porto defeated English champions Arsenal 3–2 in a friendly match. To commemorate this victory, the associates offered the club a massive trophy made of 250 kg (550 lb) of silver and wood – the Arsenal Cup. Having endured a 16-year title drought period, Porto returned to winning ways by taking the 1955–56 Primeira Divisão on head-to-head advantage over runners-up Benfica . Later that season, Porto beat Torreense to win its first Taça de Portugal and achieved its first double . As the Portuguese league winner, Porto made its debut in European competitions by qualifying for the 1956–57 European Cup . The club's first participation was short-lived, ending in the preliminary round with two defeats against Spanish champions Athletic Bilbao . A year later, Porto lifted its second Taça de Portugal by beating Benfica 1–0 in the final. In 1958, Béla Guttmann took charge as coach of Porto and helped them overhaul a five-point lead enjoyed by Benfica to win the Portuguese League title in 1959. The two clubs met in the season's final, but this time Benfica took the trophy and denied a second double for Porto that had won the 1958–59 Primeira Divisão three months before. Shortly after, the club entered another lacklustre period of its history, the highest point of which was a victory in the 1968 Taça de Portugal final. During this time, Porto had its worst-ever league classification, a ninth place in 1969–70, while its best league record in that period consisted of six runner-up finishes (four consecutive between 1961–62 and 1964–65). In European competitions, the club participated for the first time in the Inter-Cities Fairs Cup (and its successor, the UEFA Cup ) and in the Cup Winners' Cup , without getting past the third round. One of the club's most tragic moments occurred on 16 December 1973, when during a league match against Vitória de Setúbal , the 26-year-old captain Pavão fell unconscious on the pitch and died later at the hospital. The following month, Porto presented Peruvian international Teófilo Cubillas , who became one of the club's most successful players, scoring 65 goals in 108 games. ^ a b Tovar 2011 , pp. 49–50. ^ a b "História" . FPF.pt (in Portuguese). Portuguese Football Federation . Archived from the original on 15 July 2014 . Retrieved 22 June 2014 . ^ a b c Claro, Paulo (15 May 2004). "Campeonato de Portugal 1921–1938" . RSSSF . Retrieved 22 June 2014 . ^ Cite error: The named reference regional championship was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ Tovar 2011 , p. 89. ^ Tovar 2011 , p. 92. ^ Teixeira, Jorge Miguel (11 August 1999). "Portugal 1934–35" . RSSSF . Retrieved 23 June 2014 . ^ Tovar 2011 , p. 96. ^ Tovar 2011 , p. 121. ^ Stadium Newspaper, 10 January 1940 ^ Tovar 2011 , p. 136. ^ Bandeira 2012 , p. 22. ^ Tovar 2011 , pp. 219–222. ^ a b Claro, Paulo (22 May 2014). "Portugal – List of Cup Winners" . RSSSF . Retrieved 5 July 2014 . ^ Tovar 2011 , p. 224. ^ "1956–57 UEFA Champions League" . UEFA. Archived from the original on 24 September 2011 . Retrieved 24 June 2014 . ^ "Revolutionary coach who survived Nazi labour camp to become world's first superstar manager" . Sportal – World Sports News . 16 July 2023. ^ Tovar 2011 , p. 236. ^ Tovar 2011 , p. 304. ^ Claro, Paulo (15 May 2014). "Portugal – List of champions" . RSSSF . Retrieved 25 June 2014 . ^ "FC Porto – History" . UEFA. Archived from the original on 23 February 2013 . Retrieved 25 June 2014 . ^ Tovar 2011 , p. 330. ^ Marques Simões, Rui (13 September 2009). "FC Porto–Setúbal à jornada 13: é dia de lembrar Pavão" [FC Porto–Setúbal on matchday 13: a day to remember Pavão]. dn.pt (in Portuguese). Diário de Notícias . Archived from the original on 27 April 2014 . Retrieved 26 June 2014 . ^ Tovar 2011 , p. 655. Cite error: There are <ref group=lower-alpha> tags or {{efn}} templates on this page, but the references will not show without a {{reflist|group=lower-alpha}} template or {{notelist}} template (see the help page ).

______________________________________________________________________

### International affirmation (1977–1988)

International affirmation (1977–1988) [ edit ] Rabah Madjer was a key figure in Porto's 1987 European Cup Final victory. The return of José Maria Pedroto – a former Porto player and head coach in the late 1960s – in the 1976–77 season started a new chapter in the club's history. Responsible for the previous cup triumph in 1968, Pedroto guided Porto to its fourth title in the competition. In the following season, he put an end to Porto's league title drought, winning the championship 19 years after having played in the team that took the last title. Internationally, Porto reached the quarter-finals of the 1977–78 Cup Winners' Cup , beating Manchester United along the way, but suffered its heaviest defeat (6–1) against AEK Athens in the subsequent season's European Cup . A poor run of performances in the latter part of the season – resulting in the loss of the league and cup titles – sparked a conflict between the technical staff and president Américo de Sá, which ended with the resignation of Pedroto and his replacement by Hermann Stessl . In December 1981, Porto overcame Benfica to win the inaugural staging of the Portuguese Super Cup, the Supertaça Cândido de Oliveira . Pedroto returned in April 1982 by the hand of the club's newly elected president Jorge Nuno Pinto da Costa , who had resigned as director of football, two years before, in solidarity with the coach. The previous month, Porto fell again in the Cup Winners' Cup quarter-finals against one of the eventual finalists, but needed only two years to finally reach the competition's final . On 16 May 1984, Porto played its first major European final in Basel's St. Jakob Stadium , losing 2–1 to Michel Platini 's Juventus . Already without Pedroto, who stepped down due to illness, Porto won that season's Taça and Supertaça but lost the championship to Benfica. Under the steering of Pedroto's apprentice, Artur Jorge , the following season brought the Primeira Divisão title back to the club and crowned homegrown striker Fernando Gomes as Europe's top goalscorer for the second time, after first taking the award in 1983. Porto retained the league title in 1986, securing an entry to the 1986–87 European Cup . In the first game, the club recorded its biggest win in European competitions: 9–0 against Maltese side Rabat Ajax . Vítkovice of Czechoslovakia, Brøndby of Denmark, and Dynamo Kyiv of the Soviet Union were successively eliminated as Porto advanced to its first European Cup final, against Bayern Munich . Trailing the Germans 1–0 until the 79th minute, Porto scored twice in two minutes – the first goal through a famous backheel from former Algerian international Rabah Madjer , who assisted Juary for the second – to secure a surprising win and the European Cup title. The following season, under new coach Tomislav Ivic , the club completed a treble of international trophies by beating Ajax for the 1987 European Super Cup and Uruguay's Peñarol for the 1987 Intercontinental Cup . The 1987–88 season was one of the most successful for the club, who also won the Taça de Portugal and an expanded 20-team Primeira Divisão with a record number of goals scored (88) and distance in points to the runners-up (15). ^ Tovar 2011 , p. 349. ^ Tovar 2011 , p. 355. ^ "1977/78: Two out of three for Anderlecht" . UEFA. Archived from the original on 3 May 2010 . Retrieved 26 June 2014 . ^ a b Cite error: The named reference uefa profile was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ Tovar 2011 , pp. 368, 377. ^ Claro, Paulo (15 August 2013). "Portugal – List of Super Cup winners" . RSSSF . Retrieved 26 June 2014 . ^ Tovar 2011 , p. 391. ^ "1981/82: Home sweet home for Barcelona" . UEFA. Archived from the original on 3 May 2010 . Retrieved 26 June 2014 . ^ "1983/84: Star-studded Juventus make their mark" . UEFA. Archived from the original on 3 May 2010 . Retrieved 26 June 2014 . ^ Tovar 2011 , p. 398. ^ Tovar 2011 , pp. 391, 406. ^ "Golden Shoe" . European Sports Media . Archived from the original on 4 September 2019 . Retrieved 27 June 2014 . ^ "Classic Players – Madjer the magnificent" . FIFA. Archived from the original on 12 May 2014 . Retrieved 27 June 2014 . ^ "1986/87: Madjer inspires Porto triumph" . UEFA. Archived from the original on 6 December 2011 . Retrieved 27 June 2014 . ^ "1987: Sousa makes sure for Porto" . UEFA. Archived from the original on 27 May 2012 . Retrieved 27 June 2014 . ^ "Madjer lobs Porto to glory in the snow" . FIFA. 13 December 2012. Archived from the original on 25 December 2013 . Retrieved 27 June 2014 . ^ Tovar 2011 , p. 428. Cite error: There are <ref group=lower-alpha> tags or {{efn}} templates on this page, but the references will not show without a {{reflist|group=lower-alpha}} template or {{notelist}} template (see the help page ).

______________________________________________________________________

### <i>Tri, Tetra, Penta</i> (1988–2001)

Tri, Tetra, Penta (1988–2001) [ edit ] In contrast to the previous season, Porto failed to win a trophy in 1988–89, with many of its players struck down with injuries, such as Madjer and Gomes. Fifteen years after his first-team debut, Gomes made his last season for Porto, where he became the all-time top goalscorer with 352 goals in 455 matches. The club brought back Artur Jorge, who recovered the Primeira Divisão title in the following season and added the Taça and Supertaça trophies in 1991. His successor, Brazilian Carlos Alberto Silva , won back-to-back league titles in two seasons and qualified Porto for the first UEFA Champions League . Bobby Robson won the first two of Porto's record five consecutive league titles. Midway through the 1993–94 season, Porto hired former England manager Bobby Robson , who had been sacked by Sporting CP. The club closed the gap to league winners Benfica, reached the 1993–94 UEFA Champions League semi-finals, and ended the season with a victory over Sporting CP in the Taça de Portugal final . In Robson's first full season, Porto claimed the 1994–95 Primeira Divisão title with a win at Sporting CP's ground and played Benfica four times to secure both the 1993 and 1994 stagings of the Supertaça. The beginning of the season had been clouded by the death of 26-year-old midfielder Rui Filipe , who had scored the club's first league goal. Robson's increasing health problems barred him from leading Porto in the first months of the 1995–96 season, but he returned in time to revalidate the league title. Striker Domingos Paciência became the club's top goalscorer for the second consecutive time and won that season's Bola de Prata , the last win by a Portuguese player. To fill the void left by the departure of Robson for Barcelona , Porto hired former club captain and Portugal national team manager António Oliveira . Under his command, Porto made history by winning a third consecutive league title (the Tri ) for the first time, leaving the runners-up at a distance of 13 points. The club's eighth Supertaça win over Benfica was achieved with a solid performance at the Estádio da Luz that resulted in a 5–0 scoreline. The arrival of Brazilian players Artur and Mário Jardel proved highly productive in the 1996–97 UEFA Champions League , as their goals helped Porto beat Milan in Italy and win its group without defeats. In addition, Jardel would win the first of four consecutive Bola de Prata awards while at Porto. In Oliveira's second and last season at the club, Porto won the Primeira Divisão for the fourth straight season (the Tetra ), matching Sporting CP's achievement in the early 1950s, and secured its third double after beating Braga in the 1998 Taça de Portugal Final . For the 1998–99 season, Porto tasked Portuguese coach Fernando Santos with winning the club's fifth successive Primeira Divisão title (the Penta ) – a Portuguese football record. He accomplished this feat, becoming thereafter known as the " Penta engineer" (a pun to his academic degree), and saw Jardel's 36 goals win him the European Golden Shoe. Porto lost the chance to win its sixth straight league title, after finishing four points behind 1999–2000 Primeira Liga champions Sporting, but overcame them to lift its tenth Taça de Portugal trophy . Despite winning the Portuguese cup for the second time in two years, continued failure to retake the league title led to the resignation of Santos at the end of the 2000–01 season. ^ Tovar 2011 , p. 436. ^ Bandeira 2012 , pp. 21, 176. ^ Tovar 2011 , pp. 444, 453. ^ Tovar 2011 , pp. 462, 470. ^ "UEFA Champions League 1992/93" . UEFA. Archived from the original on 5 January 2013 . Retrieved 29 June 2014 . ^ Tovar 2011 , p. 478. ^ a b Tovar 2011 , p. 486. ^ a b Cite error: The named reference supertaça was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ Tovar 2011 , pp. 494, 501–502. ^ a b Tovar 2011 , pp. 503, 510. ^ "UEFA Champions League 1996/97 – History – Standings" . UEFA. Archived from the original on 14 September 2012 . Retrieved 29 June 2014 . ^ a b Cite error: The named reference taça de portugal was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ Tovar 2011 , p. 511. ^ "Fernando Santos deixa selecção da Grécia após o Mundial do Brasil" [Fernando Santos selected from Greece after the World Cup in Brazil]. Público (in Portuguese). 27 February 2014 . Retrieved 29 June 2014 . ^ Tovar 2011 , p. 519. ^ Cite error: The named reference golden shoe was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ Tovar 2011 , p. 527. ^ Tovar 2011 , p. 539.

______________________________________________________________________

### Mourinho's golden years (2001–2004)

Mourinho's golden years (2001–2004) [ edit ] José Mourinho led Porto to consecutive UEFA Cup and UEFA Champions League titles. The appointment of former club player and assistant coach Octávio Machado to head Porto back to the league title appeared to pay off as the team began the season with a Supertaça win against the 2000–01 Primeira Liga winners, Boavista. However, this would be the only major achievement in a lacklustre season that would culminate with a third place in the league classification – the lowest in 20 years. The elimination from the 2001–02 Taça de Portugal , four days after losing away for the Primeira Liga, precipitated the sacking of Machado after 36 matches in charge. Two days later, Porto signed União de Leiria 's coach, José Mourinho , who had previously worked for the club alongside Robson. In his presentation, Mourinho promptly showcased his personality by stating unequivocally that the club would win next season's league title. He kept true to his promise and delivered one of the club's most successful seasons. Fielding the likes of Deco , Ricardo Carvalho , Maniche , and less known players hired from other Portuguese clubs, such as Paulo Ferreira , Pedro Emanuel , Nuno Valente and Derlei , Porto won the 2002–03 Primeira Liga with relative comfort, finishing 11 points ahead of second-placed Benfica. The club also won the UEFA Cup , defeating Celtic in a dramatic extra-time final, to win its second major European title. Mourinho then secured an unprecedented treble for Porto by winning the Taça de Portugal final against his previous club. The 2003–04 season began with another 1–0 win over União de Leiria , which gave the club its 13th Supertaça. Weeks later, Porto failed to repeat this success in the 2003 UEFA Super Cup , losing 1–0 to Milan. The departure of striker Hélder Postiga was compensated by the signing of South Africa's Benni McCarthy , whose 20 league goals helped Porto in its league title defense and crowned him the competition's top scorer. Porto entered the 2003–04 UEFA Champions League directly into the group stage. Porto finished second in its group, losing only once to Real Madrid , and advanced to the round-of-16 where they met Manchester United. After narrowly winning at home (2–1), Porto was on the verge of elimination, being behind by 1–0 till the last minute of official playtime at the second leg at Old Trafford . However, Porto scored the equalizer in the 90th minute of the second leg to draw 1–1 and to advance to the quarter-finals with a 3–2 aggregate win. The team then overcame Lyon and Deportivo La Coruña to reach the Champions League final . Porto defeated Monaco 3–0 to lift the club's second European Champion Clubs' Cup . A 2–1 loss to Benfica in the Taça de Portugal final , held 10 days before, prevented another treble-winning season. ^ a b Cite error: The named reference supertaça was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ a b Tovar 2011 , pp. 548–556. ^ "Mourinho ready for Porto challenge" . UEFA. 23 January 2002 . Retrieved 30 June 2014 . ^ Tovar 2011 , p. 557. ^ "2002/03: Mourinho makes his mark" . UEFA. 1 June 2003. Archived from the original on 10 November 2011 . Retrieved 1 July 2014 . ^ a b Cite error: The named reference taça de portugal was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ "2003: Shevchenko steals the show" . UEFA. Archived from the original on 4 July 2010 . Retrieved 2 July 2014 . ^ Tovar 2011 , p. 561. ^ "UEFA Champions League 2003/04 – History" . UEFA. Archived from the original on 24 September 2011 . Retrieved 2 July 2014 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Life after Mourinho (2004–2010)

Life after Mourinho (2004–2010) [ edit ] The successful European performances of Mourinho's Porto enhanced the reputations of the coach and players like Carvalho, Ferreira and Deco, all of whom left the club in the aftermath of the Champions League victory. The following season was an atypical one, as the club had three coaches: Luigi Delneri , Víctor Fernández and José Couceiro . Under Férnandez, Porto won the 2004 Supertaça Cândido de Oliveira and the 2004 Intercontinental Cup , but lost the 2004 UEFA Super Cup to Valencia and was eliminated prematurely in the 2004–05 Taça de Portugal . Recording only 17 wins in 34 matches, Porto lost the Primeira Liga title to Benfica by three points. During this period, Porto was directly involved in the corruption scandal Apito Dourado . In 2005–06, Dutch coach Co Adriaanse was picked to reorganise the team and return the club to the top of Portuguese football. His tactical discipline and the contribution of new signings Lucho González and Lisandro López led the club to not only retake the Primeira Liga title but also secure its fifth domestic double, after beating holders Vitória de Setúbal in the Taça de Portugal final . Adriaanse's domestic success did not transfer to the Champions League , as Porto finished in the bottom of its group. The club began the 2006–07 season with a new coach, Jesualdo Ferreira , signed from neighbours Boavista. Before Ferreira assumed his role, Porto won the season-opening Supertaça , with former club player Rui Barros acting as interim coach. An experienced head coach, Ferreira had never achieved major club level success, but in his first season in Porto he became national champion for the first time. The 2006–07 Primeira Liga title was only secured in a frantic final day, as Porto finished one point above Sporting and two above Benfica. The following season, the club achieved the Tri for the second time in its history – with López clinching the top goalscorer award – but lost the Taça and Supertaça finals to Sporting CP. In May 2008, as result of Apito Dourado, a legal investigation on match fixing in Portuguese football, Porto was fined €150,000 and punished with the loss of six points, while Pinto da Costa was suspended for two years. Porto did not appeal the decision. Having claimed a sixth league and cup double in the 2008–09 season, Porto was on course to emulate the Penta of the late 1990s, but the series was broken by Benfica in the following season . Although Ferreira won his first Supertaça and defended the Taça de Portugal title , the team's failure to claim a fifth consecutive league – finishing third, outside the Champions League-qualifying places – and a 3–0 defeat against Benfica in the final of the Taça da Liga contributed to his resignation at the end of the season. A home win against Benfica prevented the rivals from celebrating the league title at the Estádio do Dragão . Under Ferreira's steering, Porto always qualified for the Champions League knockout stage, reaching the quarter-finals in 2008–09 , where it was eliminated by holders Manchester United. ^ "Mourinho checks in at Chelsea" . UEFA. 3 June 2004 . Retrieved 2 July 2014 . ^ Burt, Jason (28 July 2004). "Chelsea sign Carvalho from Porto in £20m deal" . The Independent . Archived from the original on 8 July 2013 . Retrieved 2 July 2014 . ^ "Chelsea to sign Ferreira" . BBC Sport . 23 June 2004 . Retrieved 2 July 2014 . ^ "Chelsea sign Barca playmaker Deco" . BBC Sport . 30 June 2008 . Retrieved 2 July 2014 . ^ "Porto dump coach Del Neri" . BBC Sport . 7 August 2004 . Retrieved 3 July 2014 . ^ Tovar 2011 , pp. 575–582. ^ Gonçalves, Eduardo; Campbell, Denis (26 December 2004). "Portuguese football champions shaken by corruption charges" . The Guardian . Retrieved 29 September 2015 . ^ Tovar 2011 , p. 583. ^ "UEFA Champions League 2005/06 – History – Standings" . UEFA. Archived from the original on 23 December 2011 . Retrieved 2 July 2014 . ^ Tovar 2011 , p. 591. ^ "Jesualdo Ferreira" . UEFA. 1 June 2010. Archived from the original on 7 July 2014 . Retrieved 3 July 2014 . ^ Tovar 2011 , p. 597. ^ Tovar 2011 , p. 598. ^ "Apito Final – FC Porto perde seis pontos, Pinto da Costa suspenso por dois anos, Boavista despromovido" [Final Whistle – FC Porto lose six points, Pinto da Costa suspended for two years, Boavista relegated]. SAPO Notícias (in Portuguese). SAPO. 9 May 2008. Archived from the original on 16 September 2017 . Retrieved 4 July 2014 . ^ "Comunicado" [Announcement] (PDF) . CMVM (in Portuguese). F.C. Porto. 9 May 2009. ^ Tovar 2011 , p. 606. ^ a b Tovar 2011 , pp. 615–623. ^ "UEFA Champions League 2008/09 – History" . UEFA. Archived from the original on 24 September 2011 . Retrieved 5 July 2014 . Cite error: There are <ref group=lower-alpha> tags or {{efn}} templates on this page, but the references will not show without a {{reflist|group=lower-alpha}} template or {{notelist}} template (see the help page ).

______________________________________________________________________

### Villas-Boas, Pereira and subsequent years (2010–2017)

Villas-Boas, Pereira and subsequent years (2010–2017) [ edit ] André Villas-Boas won four trophies in one season with Porto, including the UEFA Europa League. The arrival of Mourinho's former assistant André Villas-Boas , in the spring of 2010, set the stage for a highly successful 2010–11 season, which began with a 2–0 victory over Benfica for the Supertaça . Spearheaded by João Moutinho , Silvestre Varela , Falcao and Hulk (the Bola de Prata winner), Porto performed strongly in the Primeira Liga and assured its 25th title with five matches to play, after beating Benfica in its stadium. In addition, the club broke a number of records: biggest distance between champions and runners-up (21 points), the most consecutive league wins (16), and the highest percentage of points in a 30-game season (93.33%), dropping only six points and finishing the league without defeats, for the first time in its history. Eight years after the 2003 triumph, Porto returned to the UEFA Cup (renamed UEFA Europa League) and reached the final in Dublin's Aviva Stadium . In an all-Portuguese affair, Porto beat Braga with a goal from the competition's top goalscorer Falcao and lifted the trophy for the second time, as Villas-Boas became the youngest UEFA competition-winning coach. Four days later, Porto won its third consecutive Taça de Portugal with a convincing 6–2 scoreline, securing their fourth trophy of the season. As Villas-Boas left for Chelsea, Porto recruited the services of his assistant, Vítor Pereira . For the third straight year, the club began the season with another Supertaça title, which was followed by a 2–0 loss to Barcelona for the 2011 UEFA Super Cup . Although lacking the goalscoring prolificacy of Falcao (sold to Atlético Madrid ), Porto was able to revalidate the Primeira Liga title, but was eliminated prematurely from the Taça and Champions League competitions. Transferred to the Europa League , Porto failed to defend its title after being knocked out by Manchester City. In the following season, the club went a stage further in both domestic cup competitions and in the Champions League, where it fell to Málaga in the last-16 round . In the 2012–13 Primeira Liga , Porto reduced the distance to leaders Benfica to two points, before hosting them in the penultimate matchday. In a dramatic turn of events, Porto won with a goal in stoppage time and moved to the top of the league table. An away victory in the last game confirmed the Tri and Porto's 27th league title – the second without defeats. Porto entered the 2013–14 season with a new head coach – Paulo Fonseca , signed from 2012 to 2013 Primeira Liga third-placed Paços de Ferreira – but continued the trend of the previous four seasons by winning the Supertaça . This title would be the highlight of the season, as the club underperformed in every other competition it was involved. In the league, Porto led with five points over its pursuers, but a series of compromising results pushed the club down to third place, resulting in the sacking of Fonseca. Failing to overcome the Champions League group stage , Porto reached the Europa League quarter-finals , where they lost 4–1 to the eventual winners Sevilla . In the following weeks, two semi-final losses against Benfica closed the doors to the finals of the Taça de Portugal and Taça da Liga , the latter at home on penalties. Porto started the 2014–15 season with their biggest budget ever, hiring Spanish head coach Julen Lopetegui . Despite the signing of many new players, they failed to win any silverware, contributing to the biggest hiatus during Pinto da Costa's presidency. They also equalized, in terms of goals conceded, their biggest defeat in European competitions (6–1 against AEK Athens ) and suffered their biggest defeat in the UEFA Champions League (6–1 against Bayern Munich , after the 5–0 loss against Arsenal in 2010). Porto continued their losing trend in the 2015–16 season , making it the second consecutive trophyless season, with the contribution of José Peseiro , who had replaced Julen Lopetegui in January 2016. After the season was over, Peseiro was replaced by Nuno Espírito Santo . ^ a b c Cite error: The named reference supertaça was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ a b Tovar 2011 , p. 627. ^ Assunção, Manuel (14 May 2011). "FC Porto invicto confirmou na Madeira o seu lugar na história do campeonato" [Undefeated FC Porto confirmed in Madeira its place in Portuguese league history]. Público (in Portuguese) . Retrieved 6 July 2014 . ^ Fifield, Dominic (18 May 2011). "Falcao strikes to bring Europa League glory to Porto" . The Guardian . Retrieved 6 July 2014 . ^ Atkin, John (22 June 2011). "The rise of new Chelsea manager Villas-Boas" . UEFA . Retrieved 6 July 2014 . ^ a b Cite error: The named reference taça de portugal was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ "2011: Number four for Barcelona" . UEFA. Archived from the original on 30 August 2012 . Retrieved 6 July 2014 . ^ "Classificação Liga ZON Sagres 2011–2012" (in Portuguese). LPFP . Retrieved 6 July 2014 . ^ Hart, Simon (22 February 2012). "Slick City end Porto's UEFA Europa League defence" . UEFA . Retrieved 6 July 2014 . ^ Smith, Jonathan (13 March 2013). "Malaga 2–0 FC Porto (agg 2–1)" . BBC Sport . Retrieved 6 July 2014 . ^ "Primeira Liga: Porto stun Benfica with late goal to go top of table" . BBC Sport . 11 May 2013 . Retrieved 6 July 2014 . ^ Sousa, Hugo Daniel (19 May 2013). "FC Porto é o terceiro campeão sem derrotas" . Público (in Portuguese) . Retrieved 6 July 2014 . ^ "Porto appoint Fonseca" . FIFA. 10 June 2013. Archived from the original on 16 July 2014 . Retrieved 6 July 2014 . ^ "Porto sack coach Paulo Fonseca after nine months in charge" . BBC Sport . 5 March 2014 . Retrieved 6 July 2014 . ^ Aitken, Nick (10 April 2014). "Sevilla surge past Porto and into semis" . UEFA . Retrieved 6 July 2014 . ^ Assunção, Manuel (27 April 2014). "Benfica aguentou com menos um e teve prémio nos penáltis" . Público (in Portuguese) . Retrieved 6 July 2014 . ^ "O maior teste do "formador" Lopetegui" [The biggest test of "former" Lopetegui] (in Portuguese). Diário de Notícias . 26 April 2015. Archived from the original on 20 May 2015 . Retrieved 19 May 2015 . ^ "O maior jejum da era Pinto da Costa" [The biggest fasting in Pinto da Costa era]. Record (in Portuguese). 17 May 2015. Archived from the original on 13 July 2015 . Retrieved 17 July 2015 . ^ "FC Porto iguala a pior derrota europeia da sua história" [FC Porto equals worst European defeat in its history] (in Portuguese). SAPO. 21 April 2015. Archived from the original on 20 May 2015 . Retrieved 19 May 2015 . ^ "Síntese: FC Porto sofre a sua derrota mais pesada na Champions e é afastado" [Porto suffer their biggest defeat in the Champions League and are eliminated] (in Portuguese). futebol365. 30 July 2015 . Retrieved 30 July 2015 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Conceição era (2017–2024)

Conceição era (2017–2024) [ edit ] Former Porto player Sérgio Conceição has won eight honours as the club's manager, including three league titles In the 2017–18 season , after almost five years without winning any trophy, Porto won their 28th league title with the contribution of coach Sérgio Conceição , a former player of the club. The following year, in the 2018–19 UEFA Champions League , Porto managed to reach the quarter-finals of the competition, but were defeated by 6–1 on aggregate against the eventual winners Liverpool . In the 2019–20 season , Porto managed to recapture the league title, winning it for the 29th time and added for the first time in eleven years the Portuguese cup along with it. However, despite their national success, FC Porto did not reach the group phase of the Champions League and did poorly in their Europa League campaign. In the 2020–21 UEFA Champions League round of 16, Porto won on away goals rule (4–4 on aggregate) against Juventus , to reach the quarter-finals. The season would, however, end with only one national trophy, the Supertaça . After having lost the national title to Sporting in the previous season, Porto's 2021–22 season saw them reach various successes at domestic level: with Conceição at the helm for the 5th season in a row, the team recaptured the Primeira Liga , achieving a record 91 points. During the season, the Dragons also set a new record for longest unbeaten run in the league, with 58 matches, a sequence that had been started during the first half of the 2020–21 edition. One week after the league's conclusion, they added the domestic cup , thus securing the second double in Conceição's reign. On 28 January 2023, still under Conceição, and on their fifth try, Porto won their first ever Taça da Liga title, defeating Sporting CP in the final , thus winning every national trophy available. On 17 December 2023, the team qualified (along with Benfica) to the 2025 FIFA Club World Cup for the first time, as they were the highest-ranked Portuguese club in the UEFA 4-year ranking. At the end of the 2023–2024 season, after having won the Taça de Portugal and coached the team for seven years, Conceição was let go by the newly elected president of FC Porto, Andre Villas-Boas. ^ Bernardino, Augusto (6 May 2018). "E o "penta" vai para Sérgio Conceição" [And the "penta" goes to Sérgio Conceição]. Público (in Portuguese) . Retrieved 28 May 2018 . ^ "Porto 1–4 Liverpool" . UEFA. 17 April 2019. ^ "Juventus 3–2 FC Porto" . BBC Sport. 9 March 2021. ^ "FC Porto vence Taça da Liga pela primeira vez" . 28 January 2023. ^ "Adeus amargo e regado a traição. Conceição deixa FC Porto com polémica" . Notícias ao Minuto (in Portuguese). 4 June 2024 . Retrieved 20 August 2024 .

______________________________________________________________________

### New club president, André Villas-Boas (2024 – present)

New club president, André Villas-Boas (2024 – present) [ edit ] On 27 April 2024, André Villas-Boas, who had coached Porto during the 2010–2011 season, was elected the 32º president of Futebol Clube do Porto, succeeding Jorge Nuno Pinto da Costa. He won 80% of the election, with 21,489 out of 26,876 votes. Villas-Boas was keen on making immediate changes at the club, starting with selecting a new coach, Vitor Bruno , who had previously served as the assistant coach under Sérgio Conceição at Porto. Villas-Boas introduced the first women's football team to represent FC Porto, incentivized the promotion of several B team and U-19 players to the main team, and the creation of initiatives to bring the fans closer to the club. ^ "Villas-Boas é o novo presidente do FC Porto após vitória esmagadora com 80%: os resultados das eleições" . Record.pt (in European Portuguese) . Retrieved 20 August 2024 . ^ a b "Equipa sénior feminina do FC Porto vai começar na III Divisão" . O Jogo (in Portuguese). 21 May 2024 . Retrieved 20 August 2024 . ^ "FC Porto - Notícias - Lucky Fan: quando o FC Porto bate à porta" . fcporto.pt . 7 June 2024 . Retrieved 20 August 2024 .

______________________________________________________________________

## Crest and kit

Crest and kit [ edit ] Period Kit manufacturer Shirt sponsor 1975–1983 Adidas — 1983–1997 Revigrés 1997–2000 Kappa 2000–2003 Nike 2003–2008 PT 2008–2011 TMN 2011–2014 MEO 2014–2015 Warrior 2015–2016 New Balance — 2016–2018 MEO 2018–2019 Altice 2019–2022 MEO 2022– Betano The club's first crest was created in 1910 and consisted of an old blue football with white seams bearing the club name's initials in white. On 26 October 1922, the crest was changed to its present-day appearance after the club approved a design by Augusto Baptista Ferreira (nicknamed "Simplício"), a graphical artist and one of the club's players. In his proposal, the city's coat of arms – consisting at the time of a quartered shield (first and fourth quadrants: national arms; second and third quadrants: image of Our Lady holding baby Jesus and flanked by two towers holding above a banner with the Latin words "Civitas Virginis" ) surrounded by the collar of the Order of the Tower and Sword and topped by a crown supporting a green dragon with a red banner inscribed with "Invicta" (Undefeated [city]) – was added on top of the old crest, pushing the white letters down. In 1906, the club's first official team wore kits with a variety of colors and patterns, which included white shirts with red collars or vertical blue stripes, and even red shirts. This indefinition in the equipment was only solved in 1909, when through the initiative of Monteiro da Costa, Porto stipulated in its first statutes that the players had to use "a shirt with blue vertical stripes, black shorts, and personal footwear" as the club's uniform, at every training and match. Some argued that the kit should have included the city colours, green and white. Monteiro da Costa, however, defended the blue-and-white combination because he believed the colors "should be those of the country's flag , and not of the city's flag", hoping that the club would "not only defend the good name of the city, but also that of Portugal, in sporting feuds against foreigners." In 1975, Adidas became the first sports apparel manufacturers to provide kits for the club. Eight years later, Porto became the first Portuguese team to have a shirt sponsor, after signing a deal with Revigrés worth 10 million escudos per year. This deal lasted for 20 years, with successive renovations, after which the national communications corporation Portugal Telecom (PT) became the new shirt sponsors. Still, Revigrés remain as one of the club's main and longest-serving collaborators. Cite error: There are <ref group=lower-alpha> tags or {{efn}} templates on this page, but the references will not show without a {{reflist|group=lower-alpha}} template or {{notelist}} template (see the help page ). ^ a b c d Bandeira 2012 , p. 39. ^ a b Bandeira 2012 , p. 102. ^ "PT patrocina camisolas dos "três grandes" " . SAPO Notícias (in Portuguese). SAPO. 8 July 2008. Archived from the original on 2 May 2014 . Retrieved 30 April 2014 . ^ Ruela, João (29 May 2014). "FC Porto confirma Warrior como sucessora da Nike" [FC Porto confirms Warrior as the successor of Nike] (in Portuguese). Diário de Notícias . Retrieved 30 May 2014 . ^ "New Balance vai vestir FC Porto" [New Balance will equip FC Porto] (in Portuguese). Diário de Notícias . 4 February 2015 . Retrieved 5 February 2015 . ^ Bandeira 2012 , p. 14. ^ "História" (in Portuguese). FC Porto . Retrieved 27 April 2014 . ^ a b Bandeira 2012 , p. 138. ^ Bandeira 2012 , p. 202. ^ Tovar 2011 , p. 11. ^ "Main Partners" (in Portuguese). FC Porto . Retrieved 30 April 2014 .

______________________________________________________________________

## Home stadiums

Home stadiums [ edit ] Main articles: Campo da Rainha , Campo da Constituição , Estádio das Antas , and Estádio do Dragão For the training centre and youth academy, see CTFD PortoGaia . The old Campo da Constituição ground houses the Vitalis Park, the club's youth training camp. The club's first ground was the Campo da Rainha (Queen's Field), inaugurated in 1906 with an exhibition game against Boavista. The site was located near the residence of Monteiro da Costa and was the property of the city's horticultural society. Aided by his father, a horticultor by profession, Monteiro da Costa rented a portion (30 by 50 meters) of uncultivated terrain to create the first dedicated football pitch in the country. Later that year, the society's vivaria were transferred to another location, allowing Porto to increase the pitch area to match the sport's official dimensions. The ground had capacity for 600 people, including a VIP tribune, and possessed a changing room equipped with showers and sinks, a bar and a gym. The first match between Porto and a foreign team took place at the Campo da Raínha , on 15 December 1907, when the hosts played Spanish side Real Fortuna. By 1911, the Campo da Raínha was becoming too small for the rapidly growing attendances. After being notified about the sale of the ground for construction of a factory, the club searched for a new ground and rented a terrain near the Constituição street for an annual fee of 350 $ 00. The Campo da Constituição (Constitution Field) was opened in January 1913 with a match against Oporto Cricket and Lawn Tennis Club and hosted Porto's home matches for the regional championship. Eventually, the larger capacity of this ground also became insufficient for the ever-increasing crowds attending the games, particularly against high-profile opponents. On several occasions, between the 1920s and 1940s, Porto played host to matches at the Campo do Ameal (Ameal Field) or the Estádio do Lima (Lima Stadium), home of local rivals Sport Progresso and Académico , respectively. It was in the latter ground that the club achieved their most important victory at the time, as they beat English champions Arsenal 3–2 in a friendly match on 7 May 1948. Estádio do Dragão during a UEFA Champions League match In 1933, Porto approved a plan to build a new stadium to accommodate and meet the demands of larger attendances, but the project only moved forward with the purchase of 48,000 square metres (12 acres) of land in the eastern side of the city in 1947. Designed by Portuguese architects Oldemiro Carneiro and Aires de Sá, the construction of the Estádio do Futebol Clube do Porto – better known as Estádio das Antas (Antas Stadium) for the neighbourhood where it was built – began in January 1950, one month after the first stone was symbolically laid. Two years later, on 28 May 1952, the stadium was inaugurated with a ceremony, featuring the presence of the President of the Republic Francisco Craveiro Lopes , and a match against Benfica, which Porto lost 2–8. The stadium's initial layout had an open east sector (Marathon Door), which was closed in 1976 with the construction of a two-tier stand that raised the capacity to 70,000. In 1986, works to lower the pitch and build an additional tier in the place of the athletics and cycling track were concluded, setting the capacity to a new maximum of 95,000. As stadium safety regulations became stricter during the following decade, the placing of individual seats brought the capacity of the Estádio das Antas down to 55,000 by 1997. The awarding of the UEFA Euro 2004 hosting rights to Portugal in 1999 was the perfect opportunity for Porto to move into a more modern, functional and comfortable stadium, in line with the demands of high-level international football. The club decided to build an entirely new ground and chose a site located a few hundreds of meters southeast of the Estádio das Antas. The project was commissioned to Portuguese architect Manuel Salgado, and construction took two years to complete at a cost of € 98 million. Baptised Estádio do Dragão (Dragon Stadium) by president Pinto da Costa, for the mythological creature placed atop the club's crest, it was officially inaugurated on 16 November 2003 with a match against Barcelona. Porto won 2–0 in front of a record 52,000 spectators, which also witnessed the professional debut of Lionel Messi . In June 2004, the venue hosted the opening ceremony and match of the UEFA Euro 2004, and four other tournament matches. The highest attendance in an official match was registered on 21 April 2004, when 50,818 people saw Porto draw Deportivo La Coruña without goals, for the first leg of the 2003–04 UEFA Champions League semi-finals. For safety reasons, its current capacity is limited to 50,431. Museum [ edit ] Main article: FC Porto Museum On 28 September 2013 The FC Porto Museum was inaugurated, on occasion of the club's 120th anniversary. The museum includes an auditorium, a club store, a coffeehouse, and spaces for educational services and temporary exhibitions. [ citation needed ] ^ Tovar 2011 , pp. 11–13. ^ "Campo da Raínha" (in Portuguese). FC Porto . Retrieved 25 April 2014 . ^ Tovar 2011 , p. 13. ^ "Campo da Constituição" (in Portuguese). FC Porto . Retrieved 25 April 2014 . ^ "Campo do Ameal" (in Portuguese). FC Porto . Retrieved 25 April 2014 . ^ Bandeira 2012 , p. 22. ^ "Estádio do Lima" (in Portuguese). FC Porto . Retrieved 25 April 2014 . ^ a b Tovar 2011 , pp. 13–14. ^ "Estádio das Antas" (in Portuguese). FC Porto . Retrieved 26 April 2014 . ^ Bandeira 2012 , p. 159. ^ Bandeira 2012 , p. 122. ^ "Estádio das Antas" . The Stadium Guide . Retrieved 26 April 2014 . ^ a b "Estádio do Dragão" (in Portuguese). FC Porto . Retrieved 26 April 2014 . ^ "Estádio do Dragão" . The Stadium Guide . Retrieved 26 April 2014 . ^ Bandeira 2012 , p. 41. ^ "Pinto da Costa cumpre promessa e sonho com inauguração do Museu do FC Porto" . PÚBLICO (in Portuguese). Lusa. 28 September 2013 . Retrieved 2 June 2023 .

______________________________________________________________________

### Museum

Museum [ edit ] Main article: FC Porto Museum On 28 September 2013 The FC Porto Museum was inaugurated, on occasion of the club's 120th anniversary. The museum includes an auditorium, a club store, a coffeehouse, and spaces for educational services and temporary exhibitions. [ citation needed ] ^ "Pinto da Costa cumpre promessa e sonho com inauguração do Museu do FC Porto" . PÚBLICO (in Portuguese). Lusa. 28 September 2013 . Retrieved 2 June 2023 .

______________________________________________________________________

## Rivalries

Rivalries [ edit ] Main articles: O Clássico and FC Porto–Sporting CP rivalry Porto's biggest rivalries are with the other Big Three members and regular league title contenders, Benfica and Sporting CP. They stem from the historical, political, economical and cultural clash between the cities of Porto and Lisbon, where the other two clubs are based. These rivalries became more intense in the past decades, particularly since Pinto da Costa assumed Porto's presidency in 1982 and adopted a regionalistic and confrontational speech towards Lisbon. In the following years, the club began establishing its dominance in Portuguese football, at the expense of Benfica and Sporting, who had been the traditional powers since the 1940s. To Porto, the rivalry with Benfica is the strongest and most passionate, and it opposes the most representative football emblems from each city as well as the current most titled Portuguese clubs . The first match between Porto and Benfica – traditionally referred to as O Clássico (The Classic) – took place on 28 April 1912, and ended with a 2–8 win for Benfica; Porto's first victory (3–2) came only in 1920. As of the end of the 2014–15 season, the clubs have faced each other in 232 competitive matches, which have resulted in 89 wins for Porto, 86 for Benfica and 57 draws. [ citation needed ] The first meeting between Porto and Sporting CP occurred on 30 November 1919, during a friendly tournament organised by Porto. Their first official encounter was in the first leg of the final of the inaugural Campeonato de Portugal in 1922, which Porto won 2–1 en route to its first national title. Since then, the clubs have met in 221 official matches, with 80 wins for Porto, 78 for Sporting CP and 63 draws. [ citation needed ] Despite the rivalry, both clubs formed an alliance against Benfica in 2017. The club also has a strong rivalry with city rivals Boavista , called Dérbi da Invicta . ^ a b c "Benfica vs FC Porto – Portugal's great divide" . FIFA. Archived from the original on 9 October 2014 . Retrieved 21 July 2014 . ^ a b "FC Porto vs Sporting CP – Portugal's other big-city clássico" . FIFA. Archived from the original on 26 October 2012 . Retrieved 21 July 2014 . ^ Pereira, Sérgio (2 March 2012). "Lisboa–Porto: rivalidade começou há exatamente 118 anos" [Lisbon–Porto: rivalry started exactly 118 years ago] (in Portuguese). Mais Futebol. Archived from the original on 25 July 2014 . Retrieved 21 July 2014 . ^ Aleixo, Mário (2 March 2012). "Clássico Benfica–FC Porto: contam-se as horas" (in Portuguese). RTP . Retrieved 21 July 2014 . ^ Ruela, João (21 March 2014). "FC Porto-Benfica: 6 clássicos em dois meses é possível" (in Portuguese). Diário de Notícias . Retrieved 21 July 2014 . ^ Bandeira 2012 , p. 27. ^ Óca, João Pedro; Pereira, António Martins (12 May 2017). "Aliança de FC Porto e Sporting para tirar domínio ao Benfica" [FC Porto and Sporting's alliance to take out Benfica's domination]. Correio da Manhã (in Portuguese) . Retrieved 19 October 2018 . ^ "FC Porto e Sporting com aliança em risco" [FC Porto and Sporting with alliance at risk]. Record (in Portuguese). 7 November 2017 . Retrieved 19 October 2018 . ^ Roseiro, Bruno. "Sporting-FC Porto. Como do clima de guerra aberta nasceu a geringonça contra o "partido" no poder" [Sporting-FC Porto. How the geringonça against the "party" in power was born from the climate of war]. Observador (in Portuguese) . Retrieved 19 October 2018 . ^ "Boavista vs. Porto" . footballderbies.com . ^ da Cunha, Pedro Jorge (8 November 2019). " "O jogo em que chove sempre": viagem aos Boavista-FC Porto" . Maisfutebol (in Portuguese) . Retrieved 4 September 2020 . ^ Marques Simões, Rui (27 October 2017). "Boavista-FC Porto: um clássico sem a chama de outrora" . Diário de Notícias (in Portuguese) . Retrieved 4 September 2020 . ^ Martins, Arnaldo (22 June 2020). "Dérbi da Invicta com vista para os craques da cantera" . Jornal de Notícias (in Portuguese) . Retrieved 4 September 2020 .

______________________________________________________________________

## Records and statistics

Records and statistics [ edit ] Further information: List of FC Porto records and statistics Radamel Falcao holds the club record for top goalscorer in European competitions. Former defender João Pinto holds the record for most matches played in all competitions (587) and in the Primeira Liga (408), while former goalkeeper Vítor Baía has the most appearances in international competitions (99). Baía is also the most titled player, having won 25 trophies during his career in Porto. Portuguese striker Fernando Gomes is the all-time club goalscorer in all competitions (352), having also scored the most league goals (288). In European competitions, Porto's record goalscorer is Radamel Falcao , with 22 goals. José Maria Pedroto is the longest-serving coach, having taken charge of the team for 327 matches in nine seasons, while Jesualdo Ferreira became the first Portuguese coach to win three consecutive league titles (2006–2009). André Villas-Boas 's victorious campaign in the 2010–11 UEFA Europa League made him the youngest coach ever to win a European competition. The 2010–11 season was particularly strong in record achievements. Porto played the most matches (58) and secured the most wins (49) and highest winning percentage (84.4%). For the league, it had the most consecutive wins (16) and suffered the fewest defeats (none). In Europe, the club won the most matches (14 in 17) and scored the most goals (44) en route to the UEFA Europa League title – one of a record-matching four. In April 2022, Porto set a national record of 58 matches without defeats in the Primeira Liga after losing 1–0 to Braga for the first time since the end of October 2020. The team also matched the same unbeaten league run (58) as AC Milan and Olympiacos achieved in their respective domestic leagues. Recent seasons [ edit ] Further information: List of FC Porto seasons Below are listed the club's performances in the past ten seasons: Season Pos Pld W D L GF GA Pts Top league scorer(s) Goals Top overall scorer(s) Goals TP TL ST UCL UEL Other competitions 2014–15 2nd 34 25 7 2 74 13 82 Jackson Martínez 21 Jackson Martínez 32 R64 SF – QF – – 2015–16 3rd 34 23 4 7 67 30 73 Vincent Aboubakar 13 Vincent Aboubakar 18 RU 3R – GS R32 – 2016–17 2nd 34 22 10 2 71 19 76 André Silva 16 André Silva 21 4R 3R – R16 – – 2017–18 1st 34 28 4 2 82 18 88 Moussa Marega 22 Vincent Aboubakar 26 SF SF – R16 – – 2018–19 2nd 34 27 4 3 74 20 85 Francisco Soares 15 Francisco Soares 22 RU RU W QF – – 2019–20 1st 34 26 4 4 74 22 82 Moussa Marega 12 Francisco Soares 19 W RU – PO R32 – 2020–21 2nd 34 24 8 2 74 29 80 Mehdi Taremi 16 Mehdi Taremi 23 SF SF W QF – – 2021–22 1st 34 29 4 1 86 22 91 Mehdi Taremi 20 Mehdi Taremi 26 W 3R – GS R16 – 2022–23 2nd 34 27 4 3 73 22 85 Mehdi Taremi 22 Mehdi Taremi 31 W W W R16 – – 2023–24 3rd 34 22 6 6 63 27 72 Evanilson 13 Evanilson 25 W R3 RU R16 – – Last updated: 26 May 2024 3R = Third Round; 4R = Fourth Round; GS = Group stage; QF = Quarter-finals; PO = Play-off Round; R16 = Round of 16; R32 = Round of 32; R64 = Round of 64; RU = Runners-up; SF = Semi-finals; W = Winners UEFA club coefficient ranking [ edit ] As of 31 July 2024 Rank Team Points 9 Chelsea 79.000 10 Inter Milan 76.000 11 Bayer Leverkusen 72.000 12 Porto 70.000 13 RB Leipzig 70.000 14 Manchester United 70.000 15 Benfica 69.000 ^ Bandeira 2012 , p. 96. ^ a b Cite error: The named reference uefa profile was invoked but never defined (see the help page ). ^ Bandeira 2012 , p. 140. ^ Bandeira 2012 , p. 176. ^ Tovar 2011 , p. 710. ^ Bandeira 2012 , p. 40. ^ Bandeira 2012 , p. 25. ^ "2010/11: Falcao heads Porto to glory" . UEFA. 6 June 2011. Archived from the original on 19 September 2012 . Retrieved 17 July 2014 . ^ Bandeira 2012 , pp. 47, 81, 116. ^ Bandeira 2012 , pp. 37, 46. ^ Bandeira 2012 , pp. 15, 32. ^ "Os 58 jogos sem perder que trouxeram o melhor registo de sempre: o percurso sem derrotas do FC Porto que só desmoronou em Braga" [The 58 unbeaten games that brought the best record ever: FC Porto's unbeaten run that only collapsed in Braga] (in Portuguese). Observador. 7 May 2022 . Retrieved 14 June 2022 . ^ "Member associations – UEFA Coefficients – Club coefficients" . UEFA. July 2018.

______________________________________________________________________

### Recent seasons

Recent seasons [ edit ] Further information: List of FC Porto seasons Below are listed the club's performances in the past ten seasons: Season Pos Pld W D L GF GA Pts Top league scorer(s) Goals Top overall scorer(s) Goals TP TL ST UCL UEL Other competitions 2014–15 2nd 34 25 7 2 74 13 82 Jackson Martínez 21 Jackson Martínez 32 R64 SF – QF – – 2015–16 3rd 34 23 4 7 67 30 73 Vincent Aboubakar 13 Vincent Aboubakar 18 RU 3R – GS R32 – 2016–17 2nd 34 22 10 2 71 19 76 André Silva 16 André Silva 21 4R 3R – R16 – – 2017–18 1st 34 28 4 2 82 18 88 Moussa Marega 22 Vincent Aboubakar 26 SF SF – R16 – – 2018–19 2nd 34 27 4 3 74 20 85 Francisco Soares 15 Francisco Soares 22 RU RU W QF – – 2019–20 1st 34 26 4 4 74 22 82 Moussa Marega 12 Francisco Soares 19 W RU – PO R32 – 2020–21 2nd 34 24 8 2 74 29 80 Mehdi Taremi 16 Mehdi Taremi 23 SF SF W QF – – 2021–22 1st 34 29 4 1 86 22 91 Mehdi Taremi 20 Mehdi Taremi 26 W 3R – GS R16 – 2022–23 2nd 34 27 4 3 73 22 85 Mehdi Taremi 22 Mehdi Taremi 31 W W W R16 – – 2023–24 3rd 34 22 6 6 63 27 72 Evanilson 13 Evanilson 25 W R3 RU R16 – – Last updated: 26 May 2024 3R = Third Round; 4R = Fourth Round; GS = Group stage; QF = Quarter-finals; PO = Play-off Round; R16 = Round of 16; R32 = Round of 32; R64 = Round of 64; RU = Runners-up; SF = Semi-finals; W = Winners

______________________________________________________________________

### UEFA club coefficient ranking

UEFA club coefficient ranking [ edit ] As of 31 July 2024 Rank Team Points 9 Chelsea 79.000 10 Inter Milan 76.000 11 Bayer Leverkusen 72.000 12 Porto 70.000 13 RB Leipzig 70.000 14 Manchester United 70.000 15 Benfica 69.000 ^ "Member associations – UEFA Coefficients – Club coefficients" . UEFA. July 2018.

______________________________________________________________________

## Honours

Honours [ edit ] See also: FC Porto in international football As of 3 August 2024, [update] Porto have 86 major trophies in senior football. Domestically, they have won 30 Portuguese league titles, 20 Taça de Portugal , 1 Taça da Liga , 4 Campeonato de Portugal (a record shared with Sporting CP), and a record 24 Supertaça Cândido de Oliveira . Porto is the most decorated Portuguese team in international competitions, having won two European Cup/UEFA Champions League , two UEFA Cup/UEFA Europa League , one UEFA Super Cup and two Intercontinental Cup trophies. In addition, it is the only Portuguese team to have won either the UEFA Cup/UEFA Europa League, the UEFA Super Cup or the Intercontinental Cup. Porto have achieved four titles in a single season on two occasions: in 1987–88 ( UEFA Super Cup , Intercontinental Cup , Primeira Liga and Taça de Portugal) and in 2010–11 ( Supertaça , Primeira Liga , UEFA Europa League and Taça de Portugal ). The latter also included the club's second continental treble , after the one achieved in 2002–03 ( Primeira Liga , Taça de Portugal and UEFA Cup ). The club also reached the Cup Winners' Cup final in 1983–84 (losing to Juventus ) and made three more appearances in the UEFA Super Cup ( 2003 , 2004 and 2011 ). Type Competition Titles Seasons Domestic Primeira Liga 30 1934–35 , 1938–39 , 1939–40 , 1955–56 , 1958–59 , 1977–78 , 1978–79 , 1984–85 , 1985–86 , 1987–88 , 1989–90 , 1991–92 , 1992–93 , 1994–95 , 1995–96 , 1996–97 , 1997–98 , 1998–99 , 2002–03 , 2003–04 , 2005–06 , 2006–07 , 2007–08 , 2008–09 , 2010–11 , 2011–12 , 2012–13 , 2017–18 , 2019–20 , 2021–22 Taça de Portugal 20 1955–56 , 1957–58 , 1967–68 , 1976–77 , 1983–84 , 1987–88 , 1990–91 , 1993–94 , 1997–98 , 1999–2000 , 2000–01 , 2002–03 , 2005–06 , 2008–09 , 2009–10 , 2010–11 , 2019–20 , 2021–22 , 2022–23 , 2023–24 Taça da Liga 1 2022–23 Supertaça Cândido de Oliveira 24 1981 , 1983 , 1984 , 1986 , 1990 , 1991 , 1993 , 1994 , 1996 , 1998 , 1999 , 2001 , 2003 , 2004 , 2006 , 2009 , 2010 , 2011 , 2012 , 2013 , 2018 , 2020 , 2022 , 2024 Campeonato de Portugal 4 s 1921–22 , 1924–25 , 1931–32, 1936–37 Continental European Cup / UEFA Champions League 2 1986–87 , 2003–04 UEFA Cup / UEFA Europa League 2 2002–03 , 2010–11 UEFA Super Cup 1 1987 Worldwide Intercontinental Cup 2 1987 , 2004 record s shared record ^ "Honours" . FC Porto . Retrieved 11 July 2014 .

______________________________________________________________________

## Players

Players [ edit ] For a list of FC Porto players with at least 100 official appearances, see List of FC Porto players . For reserve team players, see FC Porto B . For under-19 team players, see FC Porto Juniors . Current squad [ edit ] As of 4 February 2025 Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules ; some limited exceptions apply. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. No. Pos. Nation Player 3 DF POR Tiago Djaló ( on loan from Juventus ) 4 DF BRA Otávio 5 DF ESP Iván Marcano 6 MF CAN Stephen Eustáquio 7 FW BRA William Gomes 8 MF SRB Marko Grujić 9 FW ESP Samu Aghehowa 10 MF POR Fábio Vieira ( on loan from Arsenal ) 11 FW BRA Pepê 12 DF NGA Zaidu Sanusi 14 GK POR Cláudio Ramos 15 MF POR Vasco Sousa 19 FW CMR Danny Namaso 20 MF POR André Franco 22 MF ARG Alan Varela ( vice-captain ) 23 DF POR João Mário No. Pos. Nation Player 24 DF ARG Nehuén Pérez ( on loan from Udinese ) 25 MF ARG Tomás Pérez 27 FW TUR Deniz Gül 49 FW POR Gonçalo Sousa 51 GK POR Diogo Fernandes 52 DF POR Martim Fernandes 70 FW POR Gonçalo Borges 73 DF POR Gabriel Brás 74 DF POR Francisco Moura 84 DF POR Martim Cunha 86 MF POR Rodrigo Mora 91 GK POR Gonçalo Ribeiro 94 GK BRA Samuel Portugal 97 DF POR Zé Pedro 99 GK POR Diogo Costa ( captain ) Out on loan [ edit ] Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules ; some limited exceptions apply. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. No. Pos. Nation Player — DF POR Fábio Cardoso (at Al Ain until 30 June 2025) — MF POR Romário Baró (at Basel until 30 June 2025) — FW POR Francisco Conceição (at Juventus until 30 June 2025) No. Pos. Nation Player — FW ESP Fran Navarro (at Braga until 30 June 2025) — FW BRA Gabriel Veron (at Santos until 31 December 2025) — FW ESP Iván Jaime (at Valencia until 30 June 2025) ^ "Plantel" (in Portuguese). FC Porto.

______________________________________________________________________

### Current squad

Current squad [ edit ] As of 4 February 2025 Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules ; some limited exceptions apply. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. No. Pos. Nation Player 3 DF POR Tiago Djaló ( on loan from Juventus ) 4 DF BRA Otávio 5 DF ESP Iván Marcano 6 MF CAN Stephen Eustáquio 7 FW BRA William Gomes 8 MF SRB Marko Grujić 9 FW ESP Samu Aghehowa 10 MF POR Fábio Vieira ( on loan from Arsenal ) 11 FW BRA Pepê 12 DF NGA Zaidu Sanusi 14 GK POR Cláudio Ramos 15 MF POR Vasco Sousa 19 FW CMR Danny Namaso 20 MF POR André Franco 22 MF ARG Alan Varela ( vice-captain ) 23 DF POR João Mário No. Pos. Nation Player 24 DF ARG Nehuén Pérez ( on loan from Udinese ) 25 MF ARG Tomás Pérez 27 FW TUR Deniz Gül 49 FW POR Gonçalo Sousa 51 GK POR Diogo Fernandes 52 DF POR Martim Fernandes 70 FW POR Gonçalo Borges 73 DF POR Gabriel Brás 74 DF POR Francisco Moura 84 DF POR Martim Cunha 86 MF POR Rodrigo Mora 91 GK POR Gonçalo Ribeiro 94 GK BRA Samuel Portugal 97 DF POR Zé Pedro 99 GK POR Diogo Costa ( captain ) ^ "Plantel" (in Portuguese). FC Porto.

______________________________________________________________________

### Out on loan

Out on loan [ edit ] Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules ; some limited exceptions apply. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. No. Pos. Nation Player — DF POR Fábio Cardoso (at Al Ain until 30 June 2025) — MF POR Romário Baró (at Basel until 30 June 2025) — FW POR Francisco Conceição (at Juventus until 30 June 2025) No. Pos. Nation Player — FW ESP Fran Navarro (at Braga until 30 June 2025) — FW BRA Gabriel Veron (at Santos until 31 December 2025) — FW ESP Iván Jaime (at Valencia until 30 June 2025)

______________________________________________________________________

## Personnel

Personnel [ edit ] Technical staff [ edit ] See also: List of FC Porto managers Position Staff Head coach Martín Anselmi Assistant coaches Facundo Oreja Luis Pastur Goalkeeper coaches Dário Herrera Diogo Almeida Fitness coach Diego Bottaioli Analysts André Rafael Cardoso Carlos Pintado Filipe Barata José Carlos Monteiro Club doctor Nélson Puga Nurses José Macedo José Mário Almeida Recovery specialist Telmo Sousa Physiotherapists Álvaro Magalhães Joca José Ribeiro Nuno Vicente Rúben Silva Last updated: 27 January 2025 Source: FC Porto Management [ edit ] See also: List of FC Porto presidents Position Staff President André Villas-Boas Vice-presidents Rui Pedroto João Borges Tiago Madureira Francisco Araújo José Andrade President of the General Assembly Board António Tavares President of the Fiscal and Disciplinary Council Angelino Ferreira Sporting Director Andoni Zubizarreta Director of Professional Football Jorge Costa Director of Youth Football José Tavares Director of Women's Football José Manuel Ferreira Director of Scouting José Maia Director of Performance Pedro Miguel Silva Last updated: 17 September 2024 Source: FC Porto

______________________________________________________________________

### Technical staff

Technical staff [ edit ] See also: List of FC Porto managers Position Staff Head coach Martín Anselmi Assistant coaches Facundo Oreja Luis Pastur Goalkeeper coaches Dário Herrera Diogo Almeida Fitness coach Diego Bottaioli Analysts André Rafael Cardoso Carlos Pintado Filipe Barata José Carlos Monteiro Club doctor Nélson Puga Nurses José Macedo José Mário Almeida Recovery specialist Telmo Sousa Physiotherapists Álvaro Magalhães Joca José Ribeiro Nuno Vicente Rúben Silva Last updated: 27 January 2025 Source: FC Porto

______________________________________________________________________

### Management

Management [ edit ] See also: List of FC Porto presidents Position Staff President André Villas-Boas Vice-presidents Rui Pedroto João Borges Tiago Madureira Francisco Araújo José Andrade President of the General Assembly Board António Tavares President of the Fiscal and Disciplinary Council Angelino Ferreira Sporting Director Andoni Zubizarreta Director of Professional Football Jorge Costa Director of Youth Football José Tavares Director of Women's Football José Manuel Ferreira Director of Scouting José Maia Director of Performance Pedro Miguel Silva Last updated: 17 September 2024 Source: FC Porto

______________________________________________________________________

## Organisation

Organisation [ edit ] After going public in 1997, Porto created several satellite companies: FC Porto – youth football, basketball, handball, roller hockey, athletics, club's magazine, etc. FC Porto – Futebol SAD (professional football company); SAD stands for Sociedade Anónima Desportiva Porto Estádio (stadium management) Porto Multimédia (official site and multimedia products) Porto Comercial (merchandising) Porto Seguro (insurance) The FCPorto SAD is listed in the Euronext Lisbon stock exchange.

______________________________________________________________________

## Media

Media [ edit ] Porto Canal is a television channel owned and operated by Porto, which broadcasts generalist , regional, and club-related content through cable, satellite and IPTV . The channel's programming includes live transmission of the home matches of the reserve and youth football teams, as well as of the senior basketball, handball and roller hockey teams. Founded in 2006, the channel began a managing partnership with Porto in 2011, and on 17 July 2015 was fully purchased and integrated into the club. The club also issues Dragões , an official monthly magazine that publishes articles and interviews of the teams, players and other club-related content and a daily newsletter called Dragões Diário. ^ Margato, Dina (30 June 2011). "FC Porto assume gestão do Porto Canal em Agosto" . Jornal de Notícias . Retrieved 26 August 2014 . ^ "FC Porto vai comprar o Porto Canal" [FC Porto will buy Porto Canal] (in Portuguese). SAPO. 27 March 2015 . Retrieved 28 March 2015 . ^ "FC Porto conclui compra do Porto Canal" [FC Porto completes purchase of Porto Canal] (in Portuguese). FC Porto. 17 July 2015 . Retrieved 18 July 2015 . ^ "Revista Dragões" [Dragões Magazine] (in Portuguese). FC Porto . Retrieved 28 March 2015 . ^ "Dragões Diário" [Daily Dragons] (in Portuguese). FC Porto . Retrieved 13 March 2015 .

______________________________________________________________________

## Other sports

Other sports [ edit ] See also: Dragão Arena Active sections Basketball (men) Billiards Boxing Cycling Esports Handball (men) Roller hockey (men) Swimming Volleyball (women) Football (women) Adapted sports: Basketball Boccia Futsal Football (7-a-side) Goalball Swimming Table tennis Discontinued sections Artistic skating Athletics Beach soccer Car racing Chess Handball (11-a-side) Field hockey Gymnastics Karate Rugby Shooting Sport fishing Table tennis Tennis Water polo Weightlifting

______________________________________________________________________

## Footnotes

Footnotes [ edit ]

______________________________________________________________________

## See also

See also [ edit ] List of world champion football clubs

______________________________________________________________________

## References

References [ edit ]

______________________________________________________________________

## Bibliography

Bibliography [ edit ] Bandeira, João Pedro (2012). Bíblia do FC Porto (in Portuguese). Lisbon: Prime Books. ISBN 9789896550943 . Tovar, Rui (2011). Almanaque do FC Porto 1893–2011 (in Portuguese). Alfragide: Caderno. ISBN 9789892315430 .

______________________________________________________________________

## External links

External links [ edit ] Wikimedia Commons has media related to Futebol Clube do Porto . Official website (in Portuguese and English) Club page at Primeira Liga (in Portuguese) Club page at UEFA v t e Futebol Clube do Porto Players Managers Presidents Seasons International Records and statistics Current season Other teams FC Porto B FC Porto Juniors FC Porto (women's) Stadiums Campo da Rainha Campo da Constituição Estádio das Antas Estádio do Dragão Indoor arenas Pavilhão Américo de Sá Dragão Arena Training grounds CTFD PortoGaia Constituição Park Other facilities Museum Media Porto Canal FC Porto TV Dragões Supporters Colectivo 95 Super Dragões Rivalries O Clássico Sporting CP rivalry Big Three Other sports Basketball Billiards Boxing eSports Handball Roller hockey Swimming Volleyball (women's) Adapted sports Basketball Boccia Futsal Football 7 Goalball Swimming Table tennis Affiliated clubs FC Derby FC Porto de Macau Related articles Apito Dourado European Club Association (replaced G-14 ) Superleague Formula team José Monteiro da Costa Cup Links to related articles v t e Primeira Liga 2024–25 clubs Arouca AVS Benfica Boavista Braga Casa Pia Estoril Estrela da Amadora Famalicão Farense Gil Vicente Moreirense Nacional Porto Rio Ave Santa Clara Sporting CP Vitória de Guimarães Former clubs Académica Académico de Viseu Académico do Porto Águeda Alcobaça Alverca Amora Atlético CP Aves B-SAD Barreirense Beira-Mar Belenenses Caldas Campomaiorense Carcavelinhos Chaves CUF Estrela da Amadora (1932) Fafe Feirense Felgueiras Leixões Leça Lusitano de Évora Lusitano VRSA Marítimo Montijo Naval 1º de Maio O Elvas Oliveirense Olhanense Oriental Paços de Ferreira Penafiel Portimonense Riopele Salgueiros Sanjoanense Seixal Sporting da Covilhã Sporting de Espinho Tirsense Tondela Torreense Trofense União da Madeira União de Coimbra União de Leiria União de Lisboa União de Tomar Unidos de Lisboa Varzim Vitória de Setúbal Vizela Statistics and awards Silver ball Top scorers Hat-tricks Player of the Year Associated competitions Taça de Portugal Taça da Liga Supertaça Cândido de Oliveira UEFA Champions League UEFA Europa League UEFA Conference League v t e Original Campeonato da Liga clubs, 1934–35 Académica Académico do Porto Belenenses Benfica Porto Sporting CP União de Lisboa Vitória de Setúbal v t e European Cup and UEFA Champions League winners European Cup era, 1955–1992 1950s 1955–56 : Real Madrid 1956–57 : Real Madrid 1957–58 : Real Madrid 1958–59 : Real Madrid 1959–60 : Real Madrid 1960s 1960–61 : Benfica 1961–62 : Benfica 1962–63 : Milan 1963–64 : Inter Milan 1964–65 : Inter Milan 1965–66 : Real Madrid 1966–67 : Celtic 1967–68 : Manchester United 1968–69 : Milan 1969–70 : Feyenoord 1970s 1970–71 : Ajax 1971–72 : Ajax 1972–73 : Ajax 1973–74 : Bayern Munich 1974–75 : Bayern Munich 1975–76 : Bayern Munich 1976–77 : Liverpool 1977–78 : Liverpool 1978–79 : Nottingham Forest 1979–80 : Nottingham Forest 1980s 1980–81 : Liverpool 1981–82 : Aston Villa 1982–83 : Hamburger SV 1983–84 : Liverpool 1984–85 : Juventus 1985–86 : Steaua București 1986–87 : Porto 1987–88 : PSV 1988–89 : Milan 1989–90 : Milan 1990s 1990–91 : Red Star Belgrade 1991–92 : Barcelona UEFA Champions League era, 1992–present 1990s 1992–93 : Marseille 1993–94 : Milan 1994–95 : Ajax 1995–96 : Juventus 1996–97 : Borussia Dortmund 1997–98 : Real Madrid 1998–99 : Manchester United 1999–2000 : Real Madrid 2000s 2000–01 : Bayern Munich 2001–02 : Real Madrid 2002–03 : Milan 2003–04 : Porto 2004–05 : Liverpool 2005–06 : Barcelona 2006–07 : Milan 2007–08 : Manchester United 2008–09 : Barcelona 2009–10 : Inter Milan 2010s 2010–11 : Barcelona 2011–12 : Chelsea 2012–13 : Bayern Munich 2013–14 : Real Madrid 2014–15 : Barcelona 2015–16 : Real Madrid 2016–17 : Real Madrid 2017–18 : Real Madrid 2018–19 : Liverpool 2019–20 : Bayern Munich 2020s 2020–21 : Chelsea 2021–22 : Real Madrid 2022–23 : Manchester City 2023–24 : Real Madrid 2024–25 : Paris Saint-Germain Finals Winning managers v t e UEFA Cup and UEFA Europa League winners UEFA Cup era, 1971–2009 1970s 1971–72 : Tottenham Hotspur 1972–73 : Liverpool 1973–74 : Feyenoord 1974–75 : Borussia Mönchengladbach 1975–76 : Liverpool 1976–77 : Juventus 1977–78 : PSV Eindhoven 1978–79 : Borussia Mönchengladbach 1979–80 : Eintracht Frankfurt 1980s 1980–81 : Ipswich Town 1981–82 : IFK Göteborg 1982–83 : Anderlecht 1983–84 : Tottenham Hotspur 1984–85 : Real Madrid 1985–86 : Real Madrid 1986–87 : IFK Göteborg 1987–88 : Bayer Leverkusen 1988–89 : Napoli 1989–90 : Juventus 1990s 1990–91 : Internazionale 1991–92 : Ajax 1992–93 : Juventus 1993–94 : Internazionale 1994–95 : Parma 1995–96 : Bayern Munich 1996–97 : Schalke 04 1997–98 : Internazionale 1998–99 : Parma 1999–2000 : Galatasaray 2000s 2000–01 : Liverpool 2001–02 : Feyenoord 2002–03 : Porto 2003–04 : Valencia 2004–05 : CSKA Moscow 2005–06 : Sevilla 2006–07 : Sevilla 2007–08 : Zenit Saint Petersburg 2008–09 : Shakhtar Donetsk UEFA Europa League era, 2009–present 2000s 2009–10 : Atlético Madrid 2010s 2010–11 : Porto 2011–12 : Atlético Madrid 2012–13 : Chelsea 2013–14 : Sevilla 2014–15 : Sevilla 2015–16 : Sevilla 2016–17 : Manchester United 2017–18 : Atlético Madrid 2018–19 : Chelsea 2019–20 : Sevilla 2020s 2020–21 : Villarreal 2021–22 : Eintracht Frankfurt 2022–23 : Sevilla 2023–24 : Atalanta 2024–25 : Tottenham Hotspur Finals Winning managers v t e UEFA Super Cup winners UCL vs. CWC 1973 : Ajax 1975 : Dynamo Kyiv 1976 : Anderlecht 1977 : Liverpool 1978 : Anderlecht 1979 : Nottingham Forest 1980 : Valencia 1982 : Aston Villa 1983 : Aberdeen 1984 : Juventus 1986 : Steaua București 1987 : Porto 1988 : Mechelen 1989 : Milan 1990 : Milan 1991 : Manchester United 1992 : Barcelona 1993 : Parma 1994 : Milan 1995 : Ajax 1996 : Juventus 1997 : Barcelona 1998 : Chelsea 1999 : Lazio UCL vs. UEL 2000 : Galatasaray 2001 : Liverpool 2002 : Real Madrid 2003 : Milan 2004 : Valencia 2005 : Liverpool 2006 : Sevilla 2007 : Milan 2008 : Zenit St. Petersburg 2009 : Barcelona 2010 : Atlético Madrid 2011 : Barcelona 2012 : Atlético Madrid 2013 : Bayern Munich 2014 : Real Madrid 2015 : Barcelona 2016 : Real Madrid 2017 : Real Madrid 2018 : Atlético Madrid 2019 : Liverpool 2020 : Bayern Munich 2021 : Chelsea 2022 : Real Madrid 2023 : Manchester City 2024 : Real Madrid Winning managers v t e Intercontinental Cup winners 1960s 1960 : Real Madrid 1961 : Peñarol 1962 : Santos 1963 : Santos 1964 : Inter Milan 1965 : Inter Milan 1966 : Peñarol 1967 : Racing 1968 : Estudiantes de La Plata 1969 : AC Milan 1970s 1970 : Feyenoord 1971 : Nacional 1972 : Ajax 1973 : Independiente 1974 : Atlético Madrid 1976 : Bayern Munich 1977 : Boca Juniors 1979 : Olimpia 1980s 1980 : Nacional 1981 : Flamengo 1982 : Peñarol 1983 : Grêmio 1984 : Independiente 1985 : Juventus 1986 : River Plate 1987 : Porto 1988 : Nacional 1989 : AC Milan 1990s 1990 : AC Milan 1991 : Red Star Belgrade 1992 : São Paulo 1993 : São Paulo 1994 : Vélez Sársfield 1995 : Ajax 1996 : Juventus 1997 : Borussia Dortmund 1998 : Real Madrid 1999 : Manchester United 2000s 2000 : Boca Juniors 2001 : Bayern Munich 2002 : Real Madrid 2003 : Boca Juniors 2004 : Porto v t e Former members of the G-14 (1998–2008) 1998–2008 Ajax Barcelona Bayern Munich Borussia Dortmund Inter Milan Juventus Liverpool Manchester United Marseille AC Milan Paris Saint-Germain Porto PSV Eindhoven Real Madrid 2002–2008 Arsenal Bayer Leverkusen Lyon Valencia v t e Founding members of the European Club Association Ajax Anderlecht Barcelona Bayern Munich Birkirkara Chelsea Copenhagen Dinamo Zagreb Juventus Lyon Manchester United AC Milan Olympiacos Porto Rangers Real Madrid Authority control databases International VIAF National United States

______________________________________________________________________
